Corporate: TES-Envirocorp guns for growth in e-waste space with Navis Capital’s clout

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Corporate: TES-Envirocorp guns for growth in e-waste space with Navis Capital’s clout

By Jo-Ann Huang
1,134 words
25 August 2014
The Edge Singapore
EDGESI
English
(c) 2014 The Edge Publishing Pte Ltd. All Rights Reserved.

TES-Envirocorp (TES), the electronic waste (e-waste) processing firm that failed to go public via a
backdoor listing seven years ago, is now a leading player in the industry. It is seeking new growth
opportunities through more acquisitions, thanks to the backing and guidance of private-equity firmNavis
Capital.
On July 16, TES announced the acquisition of Australian e-waste firm Green Technology Management
(GTM) through the issuance of new GTM shares and external debt. Based in Melbourne, GTM
specialises in the management of end-of-lease IT equipment, which involves handling IT assets with
expired leases and returning the assets to the lessors on behalf of the lessee; as well as asset recovery,
which involves deleting all traces of previous data from unwanted IT assets before the hardware is
handed over to the secondary market for recycling, to prevent intellectual property (IP) theft. GTM targets
revenues of $14 million by FY2015.

Scott Meekin, chief operating officer of TES and a portfolio director with Navis, says the acquisition will
boost the IT asset disposal capabilities of TES. In May 2013, Navis bought a 70% stake in TES and
Meekin was installed as COO as part of the acquisition to work with TES on its growth strategy. Navis
chose GTM because of its proprietary software OneSource, which Meekin claims will help the
multinational and blue-chip clients of TES manage the life cycles of their IT assets more efficiently.

“OneSource sorts out the equipment [specifications] of their IT assets throughout the world and maps
everything. Then we can determine the life cycle of the assets — what needs to be disposed of or when
to do a tech refresh,” says Meekin. Clients can save on IT expenditures by being on top of their IT asset
life cycles — instead of replacing their entire IT inventory with newer and faster models, they can retain
those that are still performing up to requirements, saving costs in the long run. This is especially so for
MNCs, whose IT expenditures form a significant part of their margins.
TES will roll out OneSource as part of its service once the acquisition is completed in 1Q2015. The
acquisition will boost TES’ revenues to about $200 million by next year. The software will also give the
company an edge over its competitors when targeting contracts worth more than US$1 million. “TES
will give GTM access to a global network of customers,” Meekin adds.

Banking on discarded IT equipment

More importantly, TES gives Navis exposure to the IT asset disposal industry, which is expected to grow
13% annually from US$24 billion in 2012 to US$43 billion in 2017, according to market research. “It’s
one of the fastest-growing waste streams in the landfill,” says Meekin. With that, Navis intends to make
more acquisitions in the e-waste management space using TES as a platform, he notes.

For instance, cathode-ray tubes from old TV sets and computer monitors, as well as chipsets, capacitors,
batteries and transistors from discarded electronic circuit boards often contain toxic substances that, if
not disposed of properly, could damage the environment. “We help consumer electronics brands manage
their brand equity. If their products end up in the waste stream, it contaminates the environment. And if
their IP leaks out, it will compromise the development of new products,” says Meekin. In TES’ processing
plants, hardware is refurbished for resale, and precious metals such as gold and silver are recovered
and resold to the manufacturer.

Page52of416©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.To be sure, the IT asset disposal industry is growing on the back of changing IT trends, be it individual
users who now upgrade their smartphones, tablets and wearable IT devices more regularly as well as
industrywide shifts such as the move towards data centres, cloud computing and the Internet of Things.
“There are mountains of waste that come out of these trends,” Meekin says.

More countries are also regulating the disposal of e-waste to ensure landfills are free of toxic substances.
Over the long term, TES plans to expand in the US, China and Europe. China and the US are the
world’s largest producers of e-waste, producing a combined 16.6 kilotonnes in 2012, according to
statistics from United Nations think tank Solving the E-waste Problem (StEP). TES has five plants in
China and one in the US.

In 2007, TES attempted to list on the Mainboard of the Singapore Exchange through the reverse
takeover of SM Summit, a manufacturer of CDs and DVDs, when stockbroking pair David Loh and Han
Seng Juan, who were controlling investors in TES at that time, tried to sell TES to SM Summit. In March
2009, however, the deal was called off, with both TES and SM Summit citing a “likelihood of a prolonged
economic downturn” as both companies reeled from the 2008 global financial crisis. In 2011, Centurion
Corp, operator of workers’ dormitories and which is also controlled by Loh and Han, eventually came to
market via the reverse takeover of SM Summit.

Working with Navis

Originally from the US, Meekin obtained Singaporean citizenship in 2009. As COO, he is bridging the
needs of Navis and TES, he says. “The first thing to do is build a trust relationship with the management
team and founders. We are trying to grow the business quickly,” he adds. The acquisition of TES is
Navis’ eighth investment in Singapore businesses. In 2012, Navis took Adampak, a company that
makes high-performance labels and seals, private for $110.7 million.
Meekin has decades of experience growing start-ups and new business ventures into million-dollar
companies. He spent 13 years in Singapore as Asia-Pacific CEO of Bossard Group, which makes
fasteners such as nuts, bolts and screws, from a start-up into a $100 million-revenue firm. He left
Bossard in 2009, leaving behind a management team that stayed on several years after his departure.
More recently, he co-founded a private investment firm called TruFormance and led the acquisition of
IceTech, a company making dry ice blasting equipment. He doubled sales at IceTech and increased the
company’s order book to more than eight months as at end-2011.

Established in 2005 in Singapore, TES is now a leading player in the industry, with 38 processing
facilities all over the world, most of which are located in Asia-Pacific. As a well-known brand, it maintains
the highest possible standards, says Meekin. “There are small players that are very successful and quick
in their turnarounds but don’t necessarily meet the standards that global businesses want. What we do is
provide a much higher standard, and that’s the basis of growth for TES.”

CO
IN

NS
RE

naipal : Navis Investment Partners (Asia) Limited
i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150203 : Private Equity | ialtinv : Alternative Investments |
ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
genv : Environmental News | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News
singp : Singapore | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
seasiaz : Southeast Asia

PUB The Edge Publishing Pte Ltd
AN

Document EDGESI0020140826ea8p0000c

Page53of416©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.