RBA Repeats Unsure Low Rate Wld Offset Mining , Budget Impact

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
TD

RBA Repeats Unsure Low Rate Wld Offset Mining, Budget Impact

841 words
15 July 2014
11:43
Market News International
MARNEW
English
(c) 2014. Market News International, Inc.

-Says AUD Down 8% Since Late January Despite Commodity Price Fall
-Focus On Spare Capacity In Labor Market
-Says Consumption Growth Appears To Have Eased, Non-
Mining Investment Up Slowly
By Sophia Rodrigues

SYDNEY (MNI) - The Reserve Bank of Australia repeated comments that

point
to a slight dovish tilt in its monetary policy stance by saying it was
difficult
to judge whether support to demand from low rates was enough to offset
the
expected decline in mining investment and the effect of planned fiscal
consolidation.

The dovish bias was also seen in the continued focus on spare

capacity in
the labor market and comments around the exchange rate, which has risen
despite
big declines in key commodity prices.

However, overall, in the minutes of the July 1 board meeting

published
Tuesday, the RBA maintained the line that "on present indications, the
most
prudent course was likely to be a period of stability in interest
rates."

The "present indications" included the view that "GDP growth was
forecast
to be a little below trend over the next year or so, before picking up
gradually
thereafter." Inflation was expected to remain within the target.

The outlook was supported was "significant degree of monetary

stimulus
already in place to support economic activity."

Still, the RBA expressed uncertainty when it said "low interest

rates were
working to support demand, but members agreed it was difficult to judge
the
extent to which this would offset the anticipated substantial decline in
mining
investment and the effect of planned fiscal consolidation."

Page27of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Importantly, the RBA noted that "after picking up through last

year,
household consumption growth appeared to have eased, while non-mining
business
investment was picking up gradually."

The RBA also said the Q1 national accounts data confirmed wage

growth has
been relatively low and business surveys and liaison suggested they are
likely
to remain subdued for some time, consistent with the modest improvement
in the
labor market to date.

This was "consistent with the spare capacity in the labor market,"

the RBA
said.

Forward-looking indicators of the labor market were mixed recently

but they
are consistent with only moderate growth in employment in the months
ahead, the
RBA said.

On the exchange rate, the RBA said after the 2% appreciation over

the past
month (to July 1), the Australian dollar has risen by 8% since late
January
"notwithstanding noticeable declines in bulk commodity prices over the
same
period."

"The exchange rate remained high by historical standards, and was
therefore
offering less assistance than it otherwise might in achieving balanced
growth in
the economy," the RBA said.

The minutes showed considerable discussion on the European Central

Bank's
stimulatory policy measures which contrasted with the further scaling
down of
asset purchases by the U.S. Federal Reserve, the third hike in the
official cash
rate by the Reserve Bank of New Zealand and the forward shift in market
expectations of the first increase in the Bank of England's policy rate.
Members noted that Japanese purchases of foreign bonds continued to

rise in
June and more detailed data showed "solid purchases of U.S. and
Australian
bonds," the RBA said.

On commodity prices, the RBA noted the iron ore price was about 30%

lower
than earlier in 2014 which reflected increases in supply as well as a
softening
in the growth of demand for Chinese steel. Other commodity prices were
little
changed over the month past but have fallen significantly since the
start of the
year, the RBA said.

In detailed comments on the Q1 GDP data, the RBA noted the 1.1% q/q

growth

Page28of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.was driven by strong growth in resources exports, which was not expected
to grow
as quickly in the coming quarter. Excluding resources exports, growth
had picked
up but was less than 2% over the year compared with total growth of
3.5%.

Mining investment fell to around 15% below its peak in late 2012
and
further "substantial falls were anticipated over coming quarters," the
RBA said.

At the same time, "growth in public demand was weak and was

expected to
remain so over the next couple of years, in line with planned fiscal
consolidation by federal and state governments," the RBA said.

The RBA maintained its optimistic outlook on housing construction,

saying
that despite the decline in building approvals in recent months "they
remained
at relatively high levels and both work yet to be done and loan
approvals for
new dwellings pointed to further strong growth in dwelling investment in
coming
quarters."

In the case of housing market, there were signs of some tempering

in
conditions as "housing price inflation has slowed in recent months,
auction
clearance rates had fallen from the high levels seen late last year, and
loan
approvals had been little changed over the past six months."
--MNI Sydney Bureau; tel: +61 2-9716-5467; email:
srodrigues@mni-news.com
[TOPICS:
MALDS$,MMLRB$,M$A$$$,M$L$$$,MK$$$$,MT$$$$,M$$FI$,M$$MO$,MN$FI$,MN$FX$]
rbkaus : Reserve Bank of Australia
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Deutsche Boerse AG
Document MARNEW0020140715ea7f00033

CO
RE
PUB
AN

Page29of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.