Hengyi eyes new ventures

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Hengyi eyes new ventures

Larry Schlesinger
535 words
5 June 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
41
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Chinese-backed developer Hengyi Australia is looking beyond Melbourne for fresh investment
opportunities, after selling $240 million worth of apartments in its latest high-rise development
overlooking Queen Victoria Market.

Hengyi Australia head of marketing and development Stephen Speer told The Australian Financial
Review the company was "actively looking for opportunities" and was currently considering a
number of joint ventures both in Melbourne and around Australia.

Light House, is a 69-level high-rise apartment development on the corner of Elizabeth Street and
Franklin Street in central Melbourne with an end value of $320 million. It is due for completion in
early 2017.

The project is a joint venture between Hengyi and Melbourne GP-turned-developer Harold Chua.

Dr Chua acquired what is currently the Melbourne International Backpackers – a four-storey building
on a 1009 square metre site – for $3.8 million in 2000 through his property investment business,
Sixth Grange.

The existing backpackers will be demolished in October, with construction to begin next year.

Light House has been designed by architects Elenberg Fraser featuring an exterior luminescent
shell of reflective panels.
It's the second Australian project for Hengyi, an affiliate of China's Shandong HYI Group, a
large-scale residential and commercial developer based in the Shandong province.
Hengyi's other Melbourne project – its first in Australia – is the 23-level residential conversion The
William.
Due for completion in September, it will feature residences plus a serviced apartment component
run by US hotel group Wyndham.
Light House features 607 units of which 75 per cent have already been sold. The contracts are
worth $240 million on settlement.
Mr Speer said 120 apartments were sold following investor roadshows in Hong Kong, Singapore
and Kuala Lumpur. A further batch was sold through agents in Shanghai.
There was no restriction on the number that could be sold overseas, with as many as 40 per cent
potentially owned by offshore investors, Mr Speer said.

The high number of sales to overseas buyers follows the launch of a federal government inquiry into
foreign ownership of real estate, chaired by Liberal MP Kelly O'Dwyer.

Page226of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The inquiry is investigating the economic benefits of foreign investment in residential property and
if that investment is increasing the supply of new housing.
Melbourne's CBD is saturated with new apartment projects – many developed by offshore groups
with Foreign Investment Review Board approval to sell up to 100 per cent of these overseas.

At the same time, official dwelling approval figures released this week indicate Melbourne's
post-GFC apartment boom has some way to run. Approvals for Melbourne apartments remain at
elevated levels – in excess of 20,000 a year.

Victorian planning minister Matthew Guy this week approved another 1000 units in five high-rise
buildings in Footscray and Southbank. Economist Leith van Onselen said those approvals
suggested the apartment oversupply in inner Melbourne "is likely to get worse before it gets better".

"Given the long lead times between approval and completion there is the potential that apartments
will still be getting constructed en masse in Melbourne long after the market has turned,
exacerbating any downturn," Mr van Onselen wrote on his Macrobusiness blog.

IN

RE

PUB
AN

i5010022 : Residential Building Construction | ireest : Real Estate | i501 : Building Construction |
iconst : Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140604ea650002b

Page227of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.