CMG’s abalone buy for Asia

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
CMG’s abalone buy for Asia

Brad Thompson
412 words
1 July 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
Second
3
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

Leading WA agribusiness Craig Mostyn Group has purchased Australia’s biggest abalone farm and
plans to double production as part of a $20 million investment aimed at premium seafood markets in
Asia.
CMG’s purchase of Jade Tiger Abalone, based on the coast 36km east of Geelong, marks the
family-owned company’s first investment in aquaculture and comes after its success with wild-caught
abalone exports from Tasmania.

Jade Tiger’s assets include a high-tech farm which produces about 200,000 tonnes of abalone a year
and is home to about seven million growing abalone.

A selective breeding program developed in conjunction with CSIRO has seen productivity increase
30 per cent a year at the farm, which pumps huge volumes of seawater in and out of Port Phillip Bay.

CMG chief executive David Lock said Jade Tiger wanted to lift output to 400,000t a year by 2017 and
increase exports to Singapore, Hong Kong and China.

“Based on what we have seen, the science behind this abalone farm is far and away the best of any
in Australia,” Mr Lock said.

“Effectively, the business was a high-tech start-up that recently became commercially viable. It was
the perfect time for us to step in and bring our expertise in marketing into Asia.

“We believe aquaculture offers great growth potential in Australia, specifically in the production of
high-quality and high-value seafood.”

CMG exports more than 500 tonnes of live Australian lobster, king crab, scallops and abalone a year.
Live lobster from its Tasmanian operations are selling for up to $180/kg in prime Asia markets —
almost double the base price for a tonne of iron ore — while the price of farmed abalone is $50/kg.
CMG expanded its investment in the Tasmanian lobster industry late last year with the $5 million
purchase of businesses operating in Bicheno and Dover, which also handled abalone.

“We started exporting live wild-caught abalone and understanding that business,” Mr Lock said. “I
haven’t always been a proponent of the Asia food story being the saviour of Australian primary
production but I am a strong believer in the niche market for the high-quality, high-value products that
Asia wants and abalone is absolutely one of those.”

CMG will begin investing in the farm to boost production almost immediately. It will also consider
contracting other farms to grow Jade Tiger breeding stock.

CO

cmacp : Craig Mostyn & Co. Pty. Ltd.

Page229of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

i415 : Seafood Products | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp : Consumer Goods | ifood : Food
Products | i414 : Food Preserving/Speciality Foods | i4141 : Frozen Food
c21 : Output/Production | cacqu : Acquisitions | c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 :
Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document TWAU000020140630ea710002e

Page230of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.