Heavyweights line up to bag Orica

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Heavyweights line up to bag Orica

Tim Binsted
872 words
13 December 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
38
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Inside the deal It was some time coming but hard work paid off for Blackstone.
Blackstone Australia private equity boss James Carnegie finally shed the title of bridesmaid by
snaring Orica's chemicals business for $750 million in November.

The American PE heavyweight has inked property deals in Australia but Blackstone's local private
equity team had never closed a deal in this market.

Carnegie, who was under pressure to bag a deal, called on JP Morgan and Ashurst to face off
against its rivals.
Orica, the world's biggest supplier of mining explosives, kicked off a review of its chemicals
business in 2013. Noise about a divestment started to filter through around the company's annual
general meeting in late January.

Orica chief executive Ian Smith and his dealmaker and strategy head Andrew Larke, who was
appointed chemicals CEO in September 2013, brought in Goldman Sachs, Citi and Lazard to run a
dual-track process, code-named "Project 707". The moniker may have drawn on the Boeing 707 jet
which is known for revolutionising air travel.

Goldman has long been Orica's house banker, but ex-Goldman bankers Nick Bagot and Tony
Osmond have kept good ties with Orica since they defected to Citi. Nick Sims and Andrew Chong
ran the ship for Goldman, while John Wylie and Charlie Whiting were on deck for Lazard.
Wylie had worked with Orica's Smith when he was running gold miner Newcrest and Lazard was
brought in to help handle the trade sale strategy.

Gilbert and Tobin's Neil Pathak was Orica's legal point man.

By flagging Orica's intention to demerge the chemicals business, the banking triumvirate injected
some tension into the divestment process and the inbound inquiries started flying in from PE firms
and trade buyers.
Private equity is no stranger to the chemicals industry. Five of the world's top seven chemical
distribution firms, including Brenntag, Univar and IMCD, are owned by private equity.

Goldman offered a stapled financing package to all bidders, providing an indication of gearing and
debt terms.

Larke, who has a reputation among bankers as a tough and experienced dealmaker, had led the
charge on Orica's demerger of paint maker Dulux in 2008. Dulux, which was spun out at $2.50 and is
now trading around $5.73, has become something of a poster child for value-creation in demergers.

Page222of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.With the Dulux success story in the background, the Orica board was clearly willing to press the
button on a spinoff if bids were unsatisfactory.

In August, Orica concluded the chemicals review and officially confirmed what had long been known:
the business would be sold or demerged.
Analysts had been crunching the numbers and price-tags as low as $500 million and as high as
$1.1 billion had been whacked on the business.

Smith said at Orica's half-year result in May he expected to have something to announce at its
full-year result on November 19. The bankers called for first round-bids by October.
Global PE players Apollo, Bain, Carlyle and Blackstone as well as home grown buyout firmPacific
Equity Partners were all in the mix.
A curve ball came late in the piece when state-owned China National Chemical Corporation started
expressing interest, but when final bids loomed on November 7 Bain, Blackstone and PEP were
running a three-horse race.

Larke and Orica chemicals general manager Graham Bird were still peddling hard on the demerger
option. The demerger scheme booklet had been drafted and preliminary consultations held with the
Australian Tax Office.

PEP dropped out in the final days leaving Bain, Blackstone or a demerger.
Bain offered an alternative structure that would allow Orica to retain a minority stake. Bain had also
provided an 80-page document full of quality analysis that would have proved useful for Citi,
Goldman and Lazard if their client elected for a spin-off.

But Carnegie's men had done their homework, and having faced doubts early on about deal closure,
Blackstone won its prize.
Bain went close but Blackstone's $750 million bid was cleaner and all ready to be signed off. It
wasn't a knock-out bid but it was enough and Orica was happy to take a certain cash payday.
After transaction and separation costs, Orica will reap net proceeds of between $620 million and
$650 million from the sale, which is close to the book value of the chemicals business.

The Orica team celebrated in Melbourne with a dinner at Italian restaurant Becco.

The bankers are holding fire on the celebrations until the deal closes.

Blackstone is awaiting regulatory approvals, but the deal is expected to complete early in 2015.
While the closing festivities are on hold, Lazard's Wylie and Whiting had the firm's Christmas party
to look forward to on Friday night.

Larke will leave Orica and stay on as chemicals CEO under Blackstone. His departure completes
Orica's transition to become a pure-play mining services company after a series of transformative
deals including the acquisition of Dyno Nobel, the divestment of Orica's fertiliser and crop protection
businesses, and spinning off Dulux.

blgrou : The Blackstone Group LP | iciaal : Orica Ltd
i8150203 : Private Equity | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | ialtinv : Alternative Investments
| ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities | i25 : Chemicals | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources
cspin : Demergers | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c02 : Corporate Changes | c11 :
Plans/Strategy | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | cncc : New Companies
Creation | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141212eacd0001n

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page223of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.