Eastern edens

News
Eastern edens

SE
HD
BY Monique Bowley
WC 480 words
PD
14 May 2014
SN
The City
SC
CITYME
ED
City
PG 13
LA
CY
LP

English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

TD

If Asian supermarkets don’t figure in your weekly shop, you are missing out. They are fully Phat. It’s an
entire universe of mystery items, strange flavours and fun packaging. Half the fun is in gawking, the other
half is in shouting “LOOK AT THIS” every five seconds. Monique Bowley made like Douglas Mawson and
went exploring to uncover the mystery of Asian snack foods.

1 Fried Spicy Seasoning snack $1.28 for 54 grams. Mariana Market, Grote St “Enjoy yourself with taste
and fun”, says the packet, with its jaunty sailor fish on the front. You will – they’re not like anything you’ll
find on your regular supermarket shelf. A crisp shell that shatters in the mouth, these light, tangy morsels
come in fun fishy shapes too. Just like Rex Hunt you’ll want to kiss them and throw them back ... down
your gob that is.

2 Hello Panda $1.29 for 50 grams Mariana Market, Grote St Goodbye Milk Arrowroots, Hello Panda.
These classic Japanese biscuits are a chocolate filled delight. It’s like a Tiny Teddy made love to Nutella
and nine months later had a baby snack. The only thing slowing you down from shovelling them in are the
mini-panda drawings on each biscuit. Cute. Bet the zoo wishes Wang Wang and Funi would make
something this good.

3 Everyone Says Good Good Eat $2.45 for 45 grams Kim Wang Supermarket: Central Market Everyone
is saying it. Who are we to argue? This Taiwanese chocolate-flavoured rice snack wins at brand names
but loses at nutritional value. The snack itself is yum, so sweet, crunchy and chocolatey, but so bad for
you it should be slapped with a plain label, taxed and sold behind the counter. Get it before the
government reads about it.

4 White Rabbit $2.75 Thuan Phat Supermarket, Grote St A cult primary-school item, White Rabbit Candy
were a novelty because each one was wrapped in edible paper. As a kid that seemed unfathomable. This
iconic candy of China is like a milk bottle except with a semi-hard texture that lends itself to either
sucking on it slowly or chewing away. Either way, that white rabbit is going down your hole.
5 Crown Creamy Butter Biscuits $3.39 161 grams Mariana Market, Grote St Oh my giddy Asian Aunt, I
thought, someone has invented a Jatz Cracker with butter already on it. But no, this biscuit is deceptive.
First it’s savoury. Then it’s sweet. It doesn’t know what it wants to be or where to go in the biscuit aisle.
Next to the water crackers or the Monte Carlos? I’m pretty sure the Korean on the packet translates to
“You thought it was a Jatz but you were wrong, idiot”.Eating Out with Kylie Fleming, Page 19

IN
RE

i6560011 : Shopping Malls/Superstores | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i656 : Mixed Retailing | iretail : Retail
adelai : Adelaide | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | saustr : South
Australia
PUB News Ltd.
AN

Document CITYME0020140514ea5e0001j

Page266of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.