Baosteel closer to new deal

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Baosteel closer to new deal

Nick Evans and Gareth Parker
282 words
9 April 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
First
4
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

Premier Colin Barnett has sparked renewed speculation that Aquila Resources’ major shareholder is
edging closer to a deal to restructure ownership of the company’s $7.4 billion West Pilbara iron
ore project.
Sources suggest Chinese steelmaker Baosteel is closing on a deal to buy a direct stake in the
project from American Metal & Coal International and Korea’s POSCO. Baosteel also spent more
than $40 million buying up Aquila shares late last year, lifting its holding to 19.8 per cent.

Mr Barnett will meet this afternoon in Shanghai with senior executives from Baosteel — including
chairman He Wenbo, president Dai Zhihao and Ji Chao, general manager of Baosteel Australia
Mining Co — with development of the Aquila-led project at the top of the agenda.

On the eve of his departure, Mr Barnett expressed hope that a deepwater port at Anketell Point was
further advanced than previously believed, saying Baosteel was keen to secure new sources of feed
for its giant Zhanjiang steel plant, scheduled to start production by 2016.

But any move on Anketell would depend on restructuring the ownership of project owner Australian
Premium Iron, half owned by Aquila, along with AMCI and POSCO (24.5 per cent).

AMCI is understood to be keen for a Pilbara exit at the right price. Debt-ridden POSCO, which paid
nearly $200 million for its API stake in 2010, is looking to clear its decks of non-core assets, and
industry sources suggest it could be a willing seller of at least a partial stake to long-time partner
Baosteel.

An Aquila spokesman would not comment on the speculation last night.

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

aqures : Aquila Resources Ltd. | baois : Shanghai Baosteel Group Corp | pohn : Posco Co
i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | i211 :
Metal Ore Mining | i2112 : Gold Ore/Silver Ore Mining | imet : Mining/Quarrying | isteel : Steel
Production
ceffic : Corporate Process Redesign | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document TWAU000020140408ea490000h

Page8of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.