Rio-Glencore deal possible, fund manager believes

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Rio-Glencore deal possible, fund manager believes

Matt Chambers
523 words
10 October 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
20
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

A $190 BILLION merger between mining giants Rio Tinto and Glencore to create the world’s biggest
miner should not be ruled out in the medium term, particularly if iron ore prices weaken, according to
the nation’s biggest fund manager Colonial First State, which holds shares in both companies.

Tal Lomnitzer, a London-based fund manager at Colonial First State’s $2.2bn global resources fund,
says it is unlikely Glencore’s rebuffed July approach, revealed this week by Rio and now subject to a
six-month waiting period imposed by British regulators, will get up soon.

“Having said that, it’s very clear that Glencore has ambitions to be a bigger business, and that would
entail a deal with another mining company,” Mr Lomnitzer told The Australian yesterday during a visit
to Sydney.
“In the medium term, I’d say a deal is possible, particularly if iron ore prices weaken further.” Colonial,
the Commonwealth Bank’s wealth management arm, is the biggest Australia-based holder of the
dual-listed Rio’s Australian stock with 1.7 per cent, according to Bloomberg.
Following reports this week that Glencore’s billionaire chief executive, Ivan Glasenberg, had been
canvassing Rio’s biggest overall shareholder, the Chinese state-controlled Chinalco, about a merger
deal, Rio revealed it had rebuffed an approach in August.
Switzerland-based Glencore, previously a trading house, became a mining and trading giant last year
through the acquisition of Xstrata, but this appears just the start of its ambitions.

Most analysts and fund managers have indicated a deal with Rio is unlikely. The long list of hurdles
include Rio having better-quality assets that Glencore is in no position to offer a big premium for, Rio
being set to deliver bigger cash returns to its shareholders, Glencore’s $US49bn ($55bn) of debt and
potential regulatory troubles from the Foreign Investment Review Board and China.

But Sydney-based Colonial analyst Todd Warren said it was not all in Rio’s favour.

“One of the biggest advantages Glencore has is a management and board that have considerable skin
in the game, which serves to focus their attention somewhat,” Mr Warren said.

“Glencore, in terms of assets, are not as high quality, but they have built a business model that is not
just around digging the commodities out of the ground but trading them — clearly if you control the
supply of the commodity it lends certain advantages to your trading business.” Mr Lomnitzer said
Glencore, as a trader, was skilled at making money from logistics and blending, which would mean
Rio’s big, high-quality West Australian assets would fit in well.

Rio is the Colonial resources fund’s second-biggest holding and Glencore is its fifth-biggest (the fund
does not reveal the weighting of individual stocks).Some local fund managers have suggested the bid
could gain traction through bigger shareholders with crossholdings in both firms. Mr Lomnitzer said
China’s support for the deal could be hard to get. “Although they want security of supply, they also
probably prefer fragmentation,” he said.

Page246of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

march : Glencore PLC | rtz : Rio Tinto PLC | craaus : Rio Tinto Ltd
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs :
Business/Consumer Services
c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141009eaaa0000a

Page247of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.