China coal stocks higher as government imposes tariffs

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

China coal stocks higher as government imposes tariffs

362 words
10 October 2014
Middle East North Africa Financial Network (MENAFN)
MENAFI
English
Copyright 2014. Middle East North Africa Financial Network Inc.

(MENAFN - AFP) Chinese coal miners' shares gained Friday after the government announced it
will re-impose import tariffs on the fuel, a move Australian producers condemned as a "poor"
decision.
China is by far the world's biggest coal importer and consumer, accounting for around half of
global demand -- and a key cause of pollution in the country -- but the domestic sector is struggling
in the face of overcapacity.

The finance ministry said in a statement it was putting taxes of three to six percent on some coal
imports from next Wednesday.
Coal mining shares welcomed the news, extending gains in morning trade, despite losses in the
overall Shanghai market.
Datong Coal Industry gained 3.47 percent to 7.76 yuan by the midday break, while Yanzhou Coal
Mining rose 0.79 percent to 8.95 yuan.
But in Australia, a major supplier that exports 49 million tonnes of thermal coal to China annually,
the Minerals Council said the decision would hurt ongoing free-trade talks.

"The decision is a poor one, and the MCA urges the Australian government to initiate urgent
discussions with Chinese counterparts to seek the reversal of the decision," chief executive
Brendan Pearson said in a statement.
"This decision raises the stakes on the outcome of talks on a free-trade agreement with China due
to conclude next month."

Australia hopes to complete the elusive trade deal with its largest trading partner when President
Xi Jinping visits in November for the G20 leaders' meeting. Negotiations began in 2005.
China suspended coal tariffs in 2007 to encourage imports to boost its then fast-expanding
economy, according to state media.

But with the domestic sector stagnating the country's top economic planner in July ordered it to cut
production by 10 percent in the second half of the year, state media reported.
The tax resumption is expected to increase the cost of imported coal by 20 yuan ($3.25) per tonne,
narrowing the price gap with domestic products, according to state media.
Beijing also plans to ban the sale and import of "dirty" coal from January 1 in an anti-pollution
move.

NS

RE

PUB

gtrade : Tariffs/Trade Barriers | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News | gcat :
Political/General News | gdip : International Relations | gpir : Politics/International Relations
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric
: BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Middle East North Africa Financial Network Inc

Page211of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AN

Document MENAFI0020141010eaaa0003k

Page212of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.