Projects planned for Helensvale, Coomera

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Projects planned for Helensvale, Coomera

BUSINESS PROPERTY WITH MARTIN RASINI
330 words
31 January 2014
Gold Coast Bulletin
GCBULL
GoldCoast
67
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

A LANDHOLDING within a brief walk of major facilities at Helensvale is earmarked for a 19-home
project.

The 4341sq m parcel is at 28 Careel Close, within 200m of the train station, Westfield Helensvale and
the Helensvale Plaza shopping precinct.

A home will be demolished to make way for the project.
The development, to comprise a mix of freestanding and townhouses, is planned by company 28
Careel Developments, linked to Chinese interests, which bought the site for $1.15 million last March.
The company has applied to the council to allow the project, in which all homes will have two storeys,
three bedrooms, study, two-car garages and private open spaces. Open-plan lounge, dining and
kitchen areas will give on to private open space and the homes will have brick veneer finishes at
ground level, panel cladding at the upper level and sheet metal skillion roofs.

The development will boast two communal spaces, one featuring two barbecue facilities and seating.
At Coomera, the owner of a parcel with approval for a home-office apartment project, is seeking to
drop the office component and develop a units-only building.
The 1090sq m property is at 6 Fortune St and is held by company Casax, associated with Thomas
Dirckx and Marie van Overloop, which acquired it in a third-party transaction in August.
The site, which also fronts Jowett St, houses a rundown vacant home. Casax has applied to develop
on the land a three-level building with parking at ground level and four apartments on each upper level.

The existing approval is for a building with four three-bedroom units, each with an office.

The project will feature 17 carparks, a 280sq m open space area and landscaping. The concrete-block
building will feature privacy screening, balustrades, aluminium framing, and sheet-metal roof.The
application says the eight-unit building represents a more efficient use of the site.

NS

RE
PUB
AN

gplan : Urban Planning/Development | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International
Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document GCBULL0020140131ea1v0000r

Page172of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.