FTA's spilt milk sends bad trade message to China

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

agribusiness
FTA's spilt milk sends bad trade message to China

ANDREW MARSHALL and DARREN GRAY
561 words
9 April 2014
The Land
FTLAND
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

DAIRY farmers have expressed "extreme disappointment" over the new free trade agreement with
Japan, labelling it a "dud deal" and "lost opportunity".
Fears are also rising that Australia's decision to accept a soft result on dairy import tariffs, despite big
hopes for a breakthrough, could send the wrong messages to hard-nosed Chinese negotiators when
the China Free Trade deal is being finalised.

Dairy exporters will continue to cop tariffs and duties totalling about $100 million a year for
Australia's $511m annual sales to Japan, our second biggest volume market and biggest value dairy
product destination.
But the boss of cheese and milk product exporter Bega CheeseBarry Irvin (pictured) said it was
always going to be hard to break Japan's dairy import barriers, even though Australia is its biggest
milk products supplier.
"It sounds corny, but there's no point in crying over spilt milk," said the executive chairman.
"It's disappointing the dairy export situation is virtually unchanged - and it will be very disappointing
to a lot of Japanese import companies who pay these high tariffs on our products, too.
"But Japan also has a strong domestic dairy industry and imports are a sensitive issue."
Bega and its subsidiary businessTatura Milk Industries have been exporting to Japan for two
decades with that market making up a significant portion of the company's $350m a year off-shore
sales.
It's long export relationship with the Snow brand spawned today's booming business in milk
powder-based nutritional formula products now sold across Asia.

Mr Irvin said agriculture was the last of the key areas to be signed off in the trade deal and
negotiators had to navigate several key issues which were closely influenced by Japanese national
pride - notably dairy and rice.

"I think the fact we have managed to get a free trade agreement (FTA) in place is a positive point
from which we chip away at expanding dairy trade opportunities in the future," he said.

Farmers, however are still bruised by the trade agreement result.
The Australian Dairy Industry Council's deputy chairman Robert Poole from Murray Goulburn
co-operative said the industry had particularly hoped for a substantial reprieve on tariffs on fresh
cheese exports to Japan.

"However, it now appears our words fell upon deaf ears," he said.

"This deal sends all the wrong signals to our key trading partners and is particularly troubling in the
context of the upcoming FTA negotiations with China," he said.

Page4of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Australian Dairy Farmers spokesman Karl Leibich said the pressure was now on Australian officials
not to give any ground and get a far better deal from talks with the Chinese.
"Japan has turned out to be a dud deal for the dairy industry," he said, noting negotiations may have
centred on making sure Australia got the best possible agricultural outcome it could from beef tariff
concessions.

Acting Prime Minister Warren Truss said trade deals required compromises.

"There always has to be some element of give and take. We can't get everything we would like," he
said.

"Clearly, I would like to see all agricultural trade barriers removed and that would be a huge boost to
the Australian farm sector."

becoop : Bega Cheese Ltd
i010010502 : Dairy Cattle Farming | i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i413 : Dairy Products | i0 :
Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | i0100105 : Cattle Farming | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp :
Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products | ilsfarm : Livestock Farming
c312 : External Markets | e512 : Physical Trade | gtrade : Tariffs/Trade Barriers | c31 :
Marketing/Markets | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat :
Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gdip : International Relations | gpir :
Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry
News Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | jap : Japan | nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz
: Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FTLAND0020151217ea49000k8

CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page5of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.