FED:Paladin shares up on Langer Heinrich sale

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

FED:Paladin shares up on Langer Heinrich sale

436 words
20 January 2014
Australian Associated Press Financial News Wire
AAPFIN
English
(c) 2014 Australian Associated Press Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved

PALADIN PERTH, Jan 20 AAP - Paladin shares have jumped six per cent after the uranium miner
announced it will sell a 25 per cent stake in its Langer Heinrich mine in Namibia to China Uranium
Corporation for $US190 million ($A217.18 million).
The sale will be largely used to pay down debt as the uranium price hovers around record lows.

At 1110 AEDT Paladin shares were three cents, or 6.2 per cent, higher at 60 cents.
The Perth-based uranium producer had been looking for a buyer for a minority stake in its flagship
Langer Heinrich uranium mine to improve its balance sheet, following a $40 million loss in the
September quarter.
Paladin said the deal with China Uranium Corporation Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of China
National Nuclear Corporation (CNNC), would allow CNNC to purchase its pro-rata share of product at
the prevailing market spot price.
CNNC has agreed to pay a $US20 million non-refundable deposit.
Completion of the transaction is subject to Chinese regulatory approvals, including approval by the
National Development and Reform Commission, which is expected to be obtained by mid-2014.
Paladin managing director John Borshoff said the company had conducted an exhaustive and
wide-ranging sale process.
"The significant cash injection from this minority interest sale will largely be applied to debt reduction,
which the board considers an essential step during a time of unprecedented low uranium prices," Mr
Borshoff said.
"This will help stabilise the company, establishing an incredibly strong platform that will enable us to
maximise the value of our assets and ensure increased production of much needed uranium once the
price is sufficient to support the planned future growth of nuclear energy in China and elsewhere."

Director-in-General of CNNC Du Yunbin said CNNC was looking forward to having "further prosperous
co-operation" with Paladin.

It comes after Paladin's shares rose eight per cent on Friday after announcing it will save more than $67
million after refinancing its debt facility.
Paladin's finance facilities for the Langer Heinrich uranium mine in Namibia and its Kayelekera mine in
Malawi have both been refinanced, leading to a $US59 million reduction in debt repayments over the
2014/15 calendar years.
Langer Heinrich has a current design capacity of 5.2 million pounds of uranium concentrate per
annum.
Paladin is targeting 5.7 million pounds of production in fiscal 2014, with a 20-year mine life.
The company says the mine is capable of being expanded further to produce about 8.5 million pounds
per annum.

Page195of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AAP krc/gfr

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

chinuc : China National Nuclear Corp.
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | iuran : Uranium Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying | i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i16101 : Electric Power Generation | i1610109 : Electric
Power Generation - Nuclear | ieutil : Electric Utilities | iutil : Utilities
c18 : Ownership Changes | c1522 : Share Price Movement/Disruptions | c15 : Performance | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce
: FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Australian Associated Press Pty Ltd
Document AAPFIN0020140120ea1k0005l

Page196of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.