WORK on Tamworth's new Eastpoint shopping centre is

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

early general news
WORK on Tamworth's new Eastpoint shopping centre is

300 words
13 December 2014
Northern Daily Leader
FNODAL
21
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

WORK on Tamworth's new Eastpoint shopping centre is continuing apace, with the full-line
Woolworths and Dan Murphy's expected to be open by September 30 next year.
Building company Quasar Constructions has fitted the majority of the piers on the site and
bricklayers are set to move in this week to start work on the structure.

Once complete, the site will host a 4200 square metre Woolworths supermarket, among the largest
in Australia, and an 1800 square metre Dan Murphy's liquor warehouse.

The project, which will front Peel St at the Paradise end of the CBD, has been plagued by
controversy since Tamworth Regional Councilsold Prince of Wales Park to developer Theo
Tzannes.
Mr Tzannes has since on-sold the development to Chinese company Everich for close to $30
million.
Speaking to The Leader on-site yesterday, Quasar Constructions managing director James
Crawford said work on the trading floor slabs would begin next month and be completed by March.

The massive concrete walls would then be erected and the roof would be built in May, followed by
an internal fit-out of the stores.

Up to $25 million of stock and equipment will be included as part of the fit-out phase.
Construction of the car-park and landscaping will start in July, he said.

The Woolworths is expected to include a deli, butcher, bakery, seafood outlet, fruit and vegetable
section and even a coffee lounge.

Mr Tzannes said the facade of the supermarket will include an artist's impression of the rolling hills
on East Tamworth.
A heritage plaque will also be installed at the site, acknowledging its history as a former police
paddock.

CO
RE
PUB
AN

tmwrgu : Tamworth Regional Council
nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FNODAL0020141212eacd00017

Page231of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.