Farewell to a creative retreat

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Farewell to a creative retreat

Emily Power
492 words
14 December 2014
Sunday Age
SAGE
First
20
English
(c) 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Words loom large for popular children's author Paul Jennings.
The ceiling of his study, in the picturesque Warrnambool home he has reluctantly listed for sale, is
decorated with oversized letters. Here, beneath the alphabet and overlooking the valley in one of
Victoria's postcard regions, Jennings has written his whimsical yarns enjoyed by children around the
world.

Since his first book of short stories was published in 1985, Jennings' titles, including classics
Grandad's Gifts, the Cabbage Patch and Rascal series and the crazy tales that inspired the popular
children's TV show Round the Twist, have been translated into 18 languages, sold 8.9 million copies
and won scores of literary awards.
Jennings is selling the seaside property at 520 Hopkins Point Road so he and his wife, actor
Mary-Anne Fahey - best known as Kylie Mole from The Comedy Company - can spend more time in
Melbourne with her adult children.

They are renovating a home in St Kilda, which is an imposing task given Jennings, 71, underwent a
quadruple bypass two months ago and expects to take a year to regain his strength and full health.
The bush retreat - expected to fetch $1.45 million - has 300-year-old Chinese front doors,
floor-to-ceiling bookshelves in the walk-through library, exposed beams from a West Australian
shearing shed, railway sleeper outdoor seating and decks dropping to sprawling lawns.
"I'm happy to pass it on to someone else. It's a romantic home and a romantic will buy it," Jennings
said.

Within this idyllic setting, the creative couple have been immersed in their crafts. Fahey is working
from the studio on a pilot for a TV show about a psychotherapy clinic for baby boomers, and from the
study Jennings has just finished a picture book for year 4, 5 and 6 pupils about a boy who can change
like a chameleon.

An adjacent barn on the 21-hectare block is where busloads of schoolchildren come monthly for
classes with Jennings.

The British-born writer bought the land about 16 years ago and a soldier's settlement cottage on the
site has been expanded and developed gradually. The four-bedroom property, which has won best
use of timber, best kitchen and best extension awards for local designer Donna Monaghan, was a
collaborative effort, Jennings said.

"It was another way of expressing myself creatively. It was wonderful to see something in a physical
environment go up and to live in it. It is pleasing to have an imprint in a different form of creativity."

Page217of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.A picture of Fahey in character as the sour-faced, bubblegum-popping schoolgirl hangs on the wall in
the home, but even that iconic, pop culture image won't distract would-be buyers from the views.
The property's boundary is just 50 metres from the ocean, where southern right whales break the
water.

NS
RE
PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SAGE000020141214eace00010

Page218of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.