Vitaco looks for healthy share of UK

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Vitaco looks for healthy share of UK

Jessica Gardner and Sarah Thompson
535 words
15 December 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
15
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Private equity-backed healthy snack maker Vitaco is in talks to begin selling its Aussie Bodiesbrand
in English retail chains Boots and Tesco .
The Next Capital-owned company, which also manufactures nutritional supplements, teas and
weight-loss products under a range of brands, hopes to begin selling its sugar-free and
low-carbohydrate snacks in Britain by mid-2015.

Chief executive Ryan d'Almeida said the Aussie Bodies range targets consumers who are
health-conscious, but eschew both weight-loss products and the protein-heavy regimes favoured by
gym junkies.

"People don't want to consume shakes and pills any more," he said, adding the middle ground
targeted by Aussie Bodies was "chronically underdeveloped in the UK".

"That's why the retailers are putting the time in to talk to us."

Mr d'Almeida said Vitaco had not taken orders from either of the retail giants, but talks were
"advanced".

Vitaco was created in 2007 by the merger of supplement maker Nutra-Life and Healtheries, a Kiwi
household name that sells snacks and a range of grocery items. The company has grown from
revenue then of about $NZ170 million ($160 million) to about $NZ220 million in 2013-14.
Next invested at that time and has been patient as the company integrated two New Zealand
factories into one and then bulked up its manufacturing capabilities.
Mr d'Almeida said Vitaco's plant, just outside of Auckland, gave the company a big advantage over
competitors that outsource to contract manufacturers.

"It allows us to drive innovation faster," he said.Revenue mix

The Kiwi base means Vitaco's 250 manufacturing workers come at "almost half" the labour cost of a
similar-sized team in Australia, he said.
Next gave investment bank UBS  a mandate to drum up sale options in September, 2013. The firm
raised $200 million for its third fund in November and immediately invested in bus group Forest
Coach Lines. The firm has some assets in its portfolio that are pushing the traditional investment time
frame for private equity, including hire firms Hirepool and Onsite Rental Group. Mr d'Almeida
declined to discuss exit strategies.

The keen ocean swimmer joined Vitaco six years ago and was made chief executive in November. He
has spent 20 years in the food retail and wholesale industry, first with Retail Food Group in Australia

Page112of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.and the UK and then eight years with Weight Watchers International . Prior to joining Vitaco, he briefly
led Christmas hamper club Chrisco.
Outside of Britain, Vitaco's other overseas focus is China, where its Australasian heritage is attractive.
Its most popular products in China are dairy-based products, such as milk powders, as well as
herbal and nutritional supplements. Vitaco has predominantly focused on direct-to-consumer
e-commerce channels.

Mr d'Almeida said Alibaba's Tmall website was "very appealing" because it had great reach but also
allowed the company to protect its brands by having its own merchant profiles.
"The Chinese have been traders for thousands of years and they're very good at it, so you have to
tap into that and work with them," he said.

ausbod : AUSSIE BODIES | abodip : Vitaco Health Australia Pty Limited | nxcp : Next Capital
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i428 : Soft Drinks | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer
Goods | ifood : Food Products | ifunfod : Functional Foods | inonal : Non-alcoholic Beverages/Drinks
gnutr : Nutrition | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | gfod : Food/Drink |
ghea : Health | glife : Living/Lifestyle
austr : Australia | uk : United Kingdom | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | eecz :
European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141214eacf00001

CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page113of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.