China hotplate for premium pork

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Early General News
China hotplate for premium pork

COLIN BETTLES
525 words
15 May 2014
Stock Journal
FSTOCJ
11
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

WITH a population of 1.354 billion that is rapidly expanding, along with a burgeoning middle class
consumer demographic, China represents a "screaming opportunity" for premium Australian pork
exports, says Australian Pork Limited chief executive officer Andrew Spencer.

He was one of 700 local business representatives in the high-level trade delegation, spearheaded by
Trade Minister Andrew Robb and Prime Minister Tony Abbott who attended the Australia Week in
China event in early April.

The delegation visited five key cities Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, Chengdu and Hong Kong to
explore opportunities ahead of potentially singing a free trade agreement between the two countries,
by the year's end.
Mr Spencer said the China tour showed him the "screaming opportunity" that existed for Australian
agricultural exports and high-end pork products in the fast-growing market.
"If you go to China today, you can't talk about it as a third-world country anymore," he said.

"People have money and the development in recent years is unfathomable.
"The change that's gone on in China over the last 20 years has been absolutely incredible.

"And with that wealth generation and demand for high-quality food, there's clearly a major food
opportunity for the future."
According to Austrade, China is Australia's largest trading partner, with two-way trade reaching $130b
last year.
But Minister Robb says China's economy is changing, with the focus shifting away from export and
investment towards domestic consumption of "an exploding middle class".

"This growth will drive incredible consumer demand and open up new opportunities for Australia
across so many areas compatible with our strengths; the things we do as well as any and better than
most," he said.
The Chinese Academy of Sciences predicts local population will reach 1.4 billion to 1.5b in 2050 with
urban numbers reaching up to 1.2b.
In the recent The One Hour China Book publication, co-authors Jeffrey Towson, managing partner of
investment firm Towson Capital, and Jonathan Woetzel, a director in McKinsey & Company's
Shanghai office, outline the country's population blitz.
"Urbanization is arguably the most important phenomenon shaping modern China," they said.
"More than 300 million people have moved from the country to cities in the past 30 years and an
additional 350m are on the way.

Page159of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."China has 160 cities with populations of more than 1m, and 14 cities with more than 5m.

"Increasingly, these cities are becoming linked, creating urban areas with 30m people or more the size
of many European countries."
The authors also say agribusiness is one of China's "hottest new industries" given the exploding
consumer demand accompanying population growth.
"For additional evidence, look no further than the fact that the largest Chinese acquisition of a US
company had nothing to do with technology, cars, or energy," they said.
"In 2013, Chinese Shuanghui International spent $7.1b to buy American Smithfield the world's largest
pork producer and processor.
"It's not surprising, then, that agribusiness is one of China's hottest new industries."

NS
RE

PUB
AN

e512 : Physical Trade | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News
china : China | austr : Australia | saustr : South Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FSTOCJ0020140514ea5f0001h

Page160of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.