We've one export the world really wants

By The Canberra Times

HD We've one export the world really wants
BY
WC 666 words
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

30 July 2014
Canberra Times
CANBTZ
B014
English
(c) 2014 The Canberra Times

We've one export the world really wants

J

TD

ust as the economy is getting into its stride, economists are saying watch out. That's the dismal science
for you. Should you be worried? Yes, because it sounds like less of the same is in prospect. None of this,
by the way, has anything to do with the budget emergency, which in any case has been postponed to
another day. For all the grief it caused, the truth is it did precious little about cutting the deficit this financial
year - though it bites harder down the track - and thanks to the Senate even less than it was supposed to.
There are already signs that the post-budget trauma has been short-lived. In fact one of Australia's most
distinguished economists, Ross Garnaut, says the budget is stimulatory. Ditto for monetary policy as well.
Come to that, the only thing that's not doing its bit for growth is the dollar and economists say - or rather
hope - its fall is just a matter of time. So here we are with low mortgage rates, a year of surging share and
property prices, a bottoming out of the number of jobless, a pick- up in housing and better super returns
holding the show together for the time being. What, then, are they on about? The dark side of this has
been the first year in two decades that wages failed to keep up with inflation - which has kicked up to
about 3percent - a real cut that I'm sure you've noticed and apparently we'll have to get used to while the
mining boom unwinds. Ah, the mining boom. There's something about miners that almost seems self-
destructive. When prices rise they ramp up production so much that it only pushes them down again. It's
not flagging demand from China but increased global supply that has dragged down iron ore prices for
instance.

Then again, they don't have much choice: they have to do something to recover the fortune outlayed on
capital spending in the first place which, remember, kept the economy on the straight and narrow. Still,
you'd think someone could have a word. Where was I? Oh yes, the much greater supply of iron ore
coming on stream, made possible by the biggest resources investment boom we've ever seen, has
boosted exports and for now, lifted growth. The problem is that economic growth, by definition, requires
perpetual motion. So while selling a record volume of exports is great, it has to keep increasing - or
imports must fall because technically they're deducted from GDP. And the more miners dig, the further
prices will fall, and the less income Australia generates. Especially when, as Professor Garnaut points
out, four-fifths of mining profits leave the country anyway. The only way around this - you guessed it - is
for the dollar to tumble. Hang on, I nearly forgot about our one export the world can't get enough of, and
an unlikely one it is at that. Did you know Canberra is running a nice little line in flogging government
bonds, apparently to other central banks? They get one of the world's few AAA rated bonds with the
bonus of, in their eyes at least, a decent yield. And the Abbott Government gets to borrow on the cheap.
This foreign buying has propped up the dollar and caused a rally in the bond market. But failing a fall in
the dollar, which this is preventing, it will be hard going for either shares or property to deliver another
year of double-digit returns when real incomes are falling. That is, unless offshore investors and
speculators, with other things on their minds, remain enthusiastic about us. Still, there's no reason they
shouldn't, whatever economists are saying, while they remain intoxicated by rock bottom interest rates.

Twitter: @moneypotts

RF

58867541

Page40of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

canbrr : Canberra | apacz : Asia Pacific | auscap : Australian Capital Territory | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
austr : Australia

PUB Federal Capital Press of Australia Pty Ltd
AN

Document CANBTZ0020140729ea7u0000r

Page41of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.