(Recast)Backgrounder: G20 host city Brisbane

HD
BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

(Recast)Backgrounder: G20 host city Brisbane

[e]Patrick Whiteley
932 words
14 November 2014
19:19
Xinhua News Agency
XNEWS
English
Copyright 2014. Xinhua News Agency. All rights reserved.

BRISBANE, Australia, Nov. 14 (Xinhua) -- Brisbane is the capital of Queensland with a 135
-billion-Australian dollar (117 billion U.S. dollar) economy and a population of 2.1 million people, of
which a quarter were born overseas.
There are many Chinese people living in the city and Mandarin is the second most common language
spoken in Brisbane households.

Brisbane has been developing close links with China and has formal sister city relationships with
Chongqing and Shenzhen which encourage economic development between the cities and create
investment and job opportunities from China into Brisbane.

In September 2014, Brisbane Airport (BNE) became the first Australian airport to sign a Memorandum of
Understanding (MoU) with Shanghai Airports Authority (SAA) in a partnership aiming to strengthen key
relationships and boost aviation links between Australia and China.

Also in September 2014, Brisbane Lord Mayor Graham Quirk took more than 40 delegates on a
successful business mission to Shanghai. In September 2013, Quirk led a business delegation to the
Asia Pacific Cities Summit in China's Taiwan and then onto the Chinese mainland.

In September 2012, the mayor of Shenzhen visited Brisbane with a delegation including business
people, research institutes and education providers.
The Choose Brisbane marketing campaign was launched in China's Hong Kong and on the Chinese
mainland in March 2013 and aims to expand existing and create fresh opportunities.
More than 3,000 outdoor billboards have appeared in Hong Kong, Guangzhou, Shanghai, Tokyo,
Nagoya, Osaka and Singapore. The third phase of the campaign began in July 2014 across Hong Kong
and the Chinese mainland, Singapore, Britain, Berlin, Spain, Brazil, India, Indonesia, the United Arab
Emirates, Japan, South Korea, the United States and Canada.
China remains Queensland's largest trading and investment partner with considerable economic activity
occurring particularly in mining, agribusiness and property.
Queensland's merchandise exports to China grew by 25.8 percent from 9.218 billion Australian dollars
(8 billion U.S. dollars) in 2012-13 to 11.599 billion Australian dollars (10 billion U.S. dollars) in
2013-14 with coal, metal products and ores accounting for the majority of trade.
In 2012-13, China was Queensland's top source of proposed foreign investment, valued at 3.4 billion
Australian dollars (3 billion U.S. dollars).
Chinese investments span various sectors of the Queensland economy including oil and gas, coal
mining, real estate, agribusiness and transport.

The gateway to Queensland's mineral wealth, Brisbane is home to about 170 resource companies and
more than 100 mining technology and services firms, representing a significant proportion of the sector
in resource-rich Queensland.

Page186of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Brisbane is internationally recognized as a center of excellence in the field of mining equipment,
technology and services (METS) and has Australia's highest concentration of METS companies
compared to other major cities.
Brisbane has been pivotal in capitalizing on China's growing demand for mineral, petroleum and gas
resources from Queensland through the city's advanced port, road and rail infrastructure.
Major investments have recently emerged from Chinese companies including PetroChina investing
significantly in LNG and Baosteel with rail operator Aurizon in Queensland's coal and metals sector.
Other notable Chinese companies investing in Brisbane include China Minmetals Corporation,
Chinalco, MMG and Citic Group.
China acquired more than 323 million Australian dollars (280 million U.S. dollars) in land throughout
Queensland in 2012 to 13, more than any other foreign country.
Guangzhou Property Group and China Construction Bank have recently entered Brisbane's hotel
markets with considerable investments in metropolitan property following growing investment from other
regions throughout Asia.

Brisbane is well placed to cater to the growing demands of the Asia Pacific market for the secure supply
of high-quality, high- value processed food and beverage products.
China's COFCO has invested significantly in Queensland's agricultural sector including the purchase of
Tully Sugar Mill in Northern Queensland.
Chinese based NEW Hope Investment Fund acquired a majority stake in Queensland beef processor
and exporter Kilcoy Pastoral Company (KPC).

More than 65 percent of Brisbane's 75,000 international student enrollments are from G20 countries,
including G20 guest nations. China is the number one country for international student enrollments in
Brisbane.
In the six months to June 2014, there were 8,839 international students from China studying in
Brisbane, representing 20 percent of the city's total international student population.
At the University of Queensland Chinese students represent 25 percent of the total number of
international students. China has agreed to be involved in the New Colombo Plan from 2015, which will
encourage a more genuine two-way flow of students between our countries.
China is the city's second largest international visitor market, accounting for 17.3 percent of all
international visitors.
In the year ending March 2014, Brisbane attracted 128,000 visitors from China, a rise of 3.9 percent on
the year before. Of these, 86,000 were holiday visitors.

While international visitation to Brisbane declined 2 percent in the year to March 2014, several Asian
markets also recorded strong growth over the same period (India 10 percent, Hong Kong 17 percent
and Thailand 12 percent). Overall, Chinese visitors stayed a total of three million nights in Brisbane.
Brisbane is very popular with Chinese visitors to Australia, because of its unique combination of natural
and leisure experiences, modern infrastructure and opportunities to interact with native wildlife, including
koalas and kangaroos.
Brisbane's tourism industry contributes more than 3.3 billion Australian dollars (2.8 billion U.S. dollars)
to the city's gross regional product.

Enditem

RF
RE

IPD
PUB
AN

01
china : China | austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | queensl : Queensland | guang : Guangdong | apacz :
Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China |
devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Brisbane
Xinhua News Agency
Document XNEWS00020141114eabe0040i

Page187of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Page188of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.