Economic fears tipped to drive new wave of Chinese investment

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Local
Economic fears tipped to drive new wave of Chinese investment

TURI CONDON
406 words
22 March 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
1 - All-round Country
8
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

TIGHTENING credit conditions and uncertainty over the economic outlook in China will drive
another wave of Chinese money into Australian real estate, says former investment banker Bill
Moss.
Fears of a wealth tax in China would also push investment offshore. ``Money flows out every time
you have a problem in a domestic economy,'' he said.

Mr Moss, who spearheaded the Macquarie Group's move into apartment development in China in
the mid-1990s, predicted housing affordability would grow in political prominence in Australia.

However, foreign investment also brought benefits, he said. ``On one side, more construction
stimulates the economy, with construction having one of the biggest multiplier effects, particularly in
creating jobs.''

State governments would reap benefits in stamp duty while investment would also flow into
commercial and industrial property and the hotel and tourism sectors, which had been hard hit
after the global financial crisis.

In the housing sector, heavy offshore investment created a false market, operating outside the
fundamentals of local demand and supply. ``It's a house of cards,'' Mr Moss said.
Chinese buyers spent $5.4 billion on Australian residential property last financial year, according
to investment bank Credit Suisse. In a report earlier this month, the bank estimated 18 per cent of
Sydney's new apartments and homes were sold to Chinese buyers, while in Melbourne the figure
topped 12 per cent.
Chinese buyers spent $24bn on Australian housing during the past seven years, according to Credit
Suisse, which forecast they would purchase $44bn during the next seven years.

The bank expects the investment to flow deeper into the Australian economy. ``As long as Australia
remains open for business, we expect our companies should also benefit from the next stage (of
Chinese investment).''
Developers, building material companies, banks and property websites would see Chinese
investment. ``We don't discount the possibility of a Chinese entity taking over one of these
companies,'' the bank said.

Mr Moss, who has called on state governments to levy an extra 5 per cent stamp duty on foreign
investors in a bid to ease housing affordability, expects to see more wealthy Chinese investors.
Most mainland Chinese purchases of Australian residential property have been under $1 million,
Mr Moss said. However as more sophisticated investors sought to move money out of China, funds
would flow into luxury residential, and commercial and industrial real estate.

Page107of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CO
IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

mcqbnk : Macquarie Group Limited
i814 : Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | i83101 : Investment Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit |
ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140321ea3m0006e

Page108of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.