Suncorp's smashing car award

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Suncorp's smashing car award

Tony Boyd
1,274 words
18 December 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
40
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Chanticleer

General insurer Suncorp Group wins Chanticleer's 2014 award for the most successful
micro-economic reform in any industry in Australia thanks to its top to bottom transformation of the
multibillion-dollar car smash repair business.

This is the inaugural prize in a contest that may well go into hibernation because of the general lack
of enthusiasm in corporate Australia for taking on vested interests.

It is fitting the award is being made on the same day Boral chief executive Mike Kane is being
lauded for his gutsy decision to take on the powerful Construction, Forestry, Mining and Energy
Union.

However, the Kane victory reflects his willingness to confront a single bottleneck in the construction
industry supply chain.
Over at Suncorp, the head of the company's personal insurance division, Mark Milliner, managed to
change every facet of the smash repair supply chain.

This warrants a Chanticleer tail feather because it combines new processes, use of infrared
paint-drying technology to speed up repair times, just-in-time parts supply and dramatically different
labour practices.

The productivity gains in the Suncorp smash repairs business have been stunning. There have been
materially significant financial benefits.

One unanswered question is whether those gains will flow equally to Suncorp's shareholders and to
its insurance policyholders.

However, the structure of the general insurance market, whereby 60 per cent of the business is
shared between Suncorp and Insurance Australia Group, means there are incentives for
policyholders to gain from micro-economic reform.

Milliner's idea for changing the smash repair industry from a cottage industry to an industrial scale
machine came to him when he worked as an insurance assessor for Suncorp.

He could see the inefficiencies and learned firsthand the frustrations of customers who were unable
to use their cars for lengthy periods despite needing simple repairs.

Milliner also saw firsthand the ripoff that is involved in the supply of parts, as each participant in the
supply chain earned a profit.

A report prepared for Suncorp by Allen Consulting Group in 2013 found that the difference between
the price paid by vehicle assemblers and the replacement market could be as high as 700 per cent
by the time they reach the consumer.

Page146of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.For example, a component that cost $20 to manufacture would sell to an assembler for $21, but the
following margins would be added for the aftermarket: intermediaries $44, dealers $27 and the
smash repairer.

That would take the cost to the consumer to $140 or seven times the cost of production.
Suncorp's own research through forensic engineering company Delta-V Experts found the total cost
of parts in Australia for a $21,000 medium-sized hatch, such as a small Hyundai, would be be
$114,081, or 543 per cent of the car's purchase price.

As an insurance man through and through, Milliner realised that if he could lower or, at the very
least, cap the cost of repairs he could lift the Suncorp insurance trading margin.
However, he also realised that with industrial scale smash repair operations he could significantly
lower the time to complete a repair and thereby dramatically improve customer satisfaction.

The size of the Suncorp personal insurance book meant that greater efficiency would deliver huge
savings.
Suncorp home and motor claims spent more than $2.8 billion in 2013-14 on repairs.

Milliner also knew that any move by the insurer into an adjacent industry would require specialist
expertise. That is why he entered into a joint venture with an expert: Jimmy Vais.

The SMART smash repaid joint venture now has 26 smash repair centres nationally. It repairs 2500
a week on average or drivable cars or about 130,000 a year out of about 500,000 repairs a year
across Suncorp.
The new system has managed to keep repairs capped at $1.2 billion over the past two years.
Customer satisfaction is up because the average repair time for a drivable car has been cut from six
days to 10 hours.

This week, the project was extended to include home repairs. This involves a joint venture with a
company in Melbourne called Home Repairs.

This aims to cut the cost of insurance claims below $10,000. That is a critical number because in the
Melbourne Hail Storm 85 per cent of all home building claims were under $10,000 and in the 2013
Cyclone Oswald about 80 per cent of all home building claims were under $10,000.

There are now three businesses in Suncorp personal insurance business that vertically integrate
repairs.

Revenue from the smash repairs under SMART, parts under ACM Parts and Home under Home
Repairs are expected to rise from $200 million next year to $400 million in three years.

Lack of financial literacy is one of the main reasons why so many Australians are ill-equipped to
push back against people selling high risk investments or unsuitable financial products.

While commission driven sales people played a key role in the financial disasters of the past
decade, the blame for the heavy losses must be shared by those who handed over the cash.

The dire state of Australia's financial literacy was exposed on Wednesday with the release of new
research which tracks the financial attitudes and behaviours of consumers and investors.

The research, which was conducted in August by the Australian Securities and Investments
Commission, shows that at least two thirds of the population has little if any understanding of the
concept of the risk/return trade-off.

When asked about the concept 41 per cent of those surveyed said they hadn't heard of it, 28 per
cent said they had heard of it but didn't really understand it; and 9 per cent of the 30 per cent who
claimed they understood the concept of risk-return tradeoff were unable to accurately describe the
concept when tested.

Another startling statistic is the one that shows the willingness of people to put money in products
they don't understand.

Of the third of surveyed Australians who said they held investments other than superannuation
and/or their home, 1 in 10 said they'd invested in something they didn't understand in the past six
months.

Page147of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.These brief excerpts add to the compelling arguments in favour of more Australians seeking
professional financial advice.

But the survey found that only 38 per cent of surveyed Australians said they had a short-term (three
to five years) financial plan in place. Of these, 36 per cent had not monitored their progress over the
past six months.

Even fewer (22 per cent) reported having a long-term (15- to 20-year) plan in place. Of these, about
three quarters had a short-term plan.

There was some favourable headline news in the latest edition of the World Intellectual Property
Indicators, which tracks global intellectual property filings.

The data, published by the World Intellectual Property Council, shows Australia ranked second
behind China in 2013 for the fastest growth in filings.
China, which accounted for a third of the 2.6 million patent applications in 2013, saw its filings grow
by 26.4 per cent in 2013 while Australia's grew by 12.7 per cent.

However, when you dig a bit deeper the picture is less favourable for Australia. It is not our home
grown entrepreneurs driving the growth in patent applications.
Almost all the growth in Australia's patent filings in 2013 was from non-resident applicants. China's
double digit growth was almost all from resident applications.

tony.boyd@afr.com.au Twitter: @TonyBoydAFR

Tony Boyd

CO
IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

mpbs : Suncorp Group Limited
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
c133 : Patents | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | cgymtr : Intellectual Property | cinprp : Industrial
Property Rights (Patents/Trademarks)
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141217eaci0001l

Page148of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.