Iron Ore price slump takes toll on producers

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Iron Ore price slump takes toll on producers

by Paul Whitfield
710 words
17 October 2014
The Deal
DEALNEW
English
Copyright 2014. The Deal LLC.

Claims that slumping iron ore prices will lead to a shakeout of producers gained credence this week
after London Mining plc appointed administrators a day after a Brazilian producer filed for bankruptcy
protection.
London Mining on Thursday said it had appointed PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP to find a buyer for its
Sierra Leone iron ore mine after failing to engineer a sale of the operation and because of a lack of
liquidity.

"The collapse in iron ore prices and the resulting impacts on this business have been very dramatic and
our focus is to ensure that a buyer is found for the Marampa Mine operations given it is such an
important part of the Sierra Leone economy," PwC's Russell Downs said in a statement.
Iron ore prices have fallen more than 40% this year, touching five-year lows of below $80 per ton at the
end of September, as demand from China slows while Rio Tinto Group and BHP Billiton Ltd., the world's
two lowest-cost iron ore miners, increase output. The slump in prices is being felt around the world.
On Friday, Cleveland-based Cliffs Natural Resources Inc. (NYSE:CLF) said it would book a $6 billion
noncash impairment because of "adverse market conditions for seaborne iron ore and metallurgical
coal."

Cliff warned the impairment will result in it breaching a debt-to-capitalization limit of 45% that is stipulated
by its revolving credit facility. The company currently has no drawings on the $1.25 billion facility.
On Wednesday, a unit of MMX Mineração e Metálicos SA, an iron ore mining company controlled by
Brazilian tycoon Eike Batista, filed for bankruptcy protection. MMX Sudeste Mineração SA, which owns
most of its parent's assets, filed for protection after MMX last year postponed an expansion of its key
project and slashed the value of its assets.

Analysts have warned that other companies will fail.
BHP and Rio Tinto have a "strong incentive" to keep iron ore prices low as they seek to push high-cost
operators out of the market and block new investments that threaten their effective oligopoly on
seaborne trade, according UBS AG analyst Daniel Morgan.
"An iron ore price in the $80 a ton to $90 a ton range may mean greater long-term returns [for large
miners] than one that brings overcapacity," Morgan noted this week. "We believe plenty [of iron ore
producers] are unable to compete and will make way for the new tons."
UBS has cut its forecast average iron ore price to $85 for 2015 and $82 for 2016.
The strategy of suppressing iron ore prices has drawn criticism from politicians and rivals in Australia,
where BHP's and Rio Tinto's major iron ore operations are located.

On Tuesday, West Australian Premier Colin Barnett accused the pair of "acting seemingly in a concert
way" to force iron ore prices down by flooding the market. He later said he hadn't meant to suggest the
mining companies were colluding.

Page213of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Barnett, whose government receives 10% royalties on iron ore sales from Western Australia, said he
had raised the question of lower prices forcing out some producers with BHP's head of iron ore, Jimmy
Wilson. Barnett claimed that Wilson responded to his concerns dismissively, telling him "it's a tough old
world out there."

BHP and Rio Tinto came in for more criticism on Friday from the CEO of Australian rival Fortescue
Metals Group, who warned that the pricing strategy was misguided and could cost his rival CEOs their
jobs.

"Investing because you're more profitable than the next guy seems to be a very flawed strategy to me
and one that will inevitably lead to self-inflicted wounds, low returns to shareholders, and probably
replacement of management teams," Fortescue CEO Nev Power told a meeting in Perth, according to a
report in the Australian newspaper. "I'm not quite sure why anyone would want to be the last man
standing in a low-price, low-return environment."

Shares in Rio Tinto traded Friday at 3,060 pence, down 23 pence, or less than 1%. BHP's London listed
shares traded at 1,676 pence, up 17.5 pence, or just over 1%.

CO
IN

NS

RE

IPD
PUB
AN

bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | lminip : London Mining PLC | rtzcra : Rio Tinto Group | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys |
ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
c16 : Bankruptcy | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ccfd : Corporate
Financial Difficulty | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | london : London (UK) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | eecz :
European Union Countries | eland : England | eurz : Europe | uk : United Kingdom | weurz : Western
Europe
Article
The Deal, LLC
Document DEALNEW020141024eaah00018

Page214of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.