Iron core suits Rio, says CFO

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Iron core suits Rio, says CFO

BARRY FITZGERALD, COMMODITIES
346 words
30 June 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
18
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

RIO Tinto chief financial officer Chris Lynch has used the occasion of his first anniversary in the
position to defend the group’s dependence on its iron ore division for earnings.

Mr Lynch — a former CFO of BHP — said in an in-house interview marking the anniversary that Rio
was “very happy’’ with its iron ore exposure, as it was a world-class business delivering world-class
returns.

The Broken Hill-raised Mr Lynch ruled out any prospect of Rio making an acquisition purely to
rebalance the portfolio: “Any investment we make will always be based on value. If there happened to
be a diversification benefit from it, then that’s great. But we’ll never target diversification as a primary
objective.’’ Iron ore contributed 96 per cent of Rio’s underlying earnings of $US10.2 billion last year,
due mainly to rising output and a bumper average price of $US135 a tonne for the steelmaking raw
material.
Poor showings by the aluminium and energy divisions were also a factor in the high iron ore count.
Iron ore will continue to dominate earnings for the foreseeable future, even though prices have
plunged to $US94 a tonne so far this year.
Still, improved earnings from the laggards in the portfolio would serve to reduce the dominance of iron
ore.

“We are working on improving the performance of businesses where we need to see better returns —
through reducing cost and liberating working capital for instance,’’ Mr Lynch said.

“Progress is under way; our assets are strong; and we’ve got good growth coming through.’’ He
confirmed that the company was pulling back from the once hectic pace of its asset disposal program,
which has funded debt reduction.
On the retreat in iron ore prices, Mr Lynch said fears of the China slowdown and its impact on prices
were overdone.“If you go to China and you see what’s happening on the ground, you come away with
a totally different perspective,” he said. “It’s all still happening.”

CO
IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

rtz : Rio Tinto PLC | craaus : Rio Tinto Ltd
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
cslmc : Senior Level Management | c41 : Management Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat
: Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140629ea6u0004h

Page9of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.