Cliffs to sell N. America coal , Australia ore assets

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Cliffs to sell N. America coal, Australia ore assets

Michael Cowden
577 words
5 November 2014
American Metal Market
AMM
English
Copyright 2014. American Metal Market

Cliffs Natural Resources Inc. plans to sell its iron ore business in Australia and its coal mining assets
in the United States, according to the company’s top executive.
CHICAGO — Cliffs Natural Resources Inc. plans to sell its iron ore business in Australia and its coal
mining assets in the United States, according to the company's top executive.

But the Cleveland-based mining company said it won't consider a "fire sale" of what it deems non-core
assets despite current low prices for iron ore and coal and a nearly $6-billion dollar write-down related
to those assets.

"We don't need to sell assets, and we have more than enough liquidity to run our business and pay
down debt. There is no time bomb ticking within Cliffs," chairman, chief executive and president
Lourenco Goncalves said during an Oct. 28 earnings conference call.

Cliffs' Koolyanobbing operation in Western Australia is a low-cost producer and could continue to
operate for another six years—the remaining life of the mine—with capital expenditures of only $50
million, Goncalves said. The facility also benefits from a product mix that includes more than 50 percent
lump iron ore, which Chinese buyers will increasingly be willing to pay a premium for as they look to
scale back purchases of the fines delivered by major Australian producers, he said.
Lumps, unlike fines, don't require additional sintering, which is costly and contributes to China's already
notorious air pollution problems, Goncalves said. Potential buyers have failed to take that into
consideration and also failed to account for Koolyanobbing's location near a port that can handle
capesize vessels and its strong rail position in Australia Pilbara, he said.

"We've gotten a lot of unsolicited interest for the assets, but from the wrong buyers," Goncalves said,
noting that Cliffs could opt to operate the mine until it reached the end of its life.
He also noted that the company's Asia-Pacific Iron Ore business remains profitable. And
Koolyanobbing, unlike facilities operated by Cliffs' bigger competitors, does not require "massive"
investment, he said.

The segment posted adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (Ebitda) of
$46.1 million in the third quarter and $234.5 million in the first nine months of 2014, according to
earnings data released Oct. 27.
Goncalves said Cliffs also plans to sell its North American coal assets but is in no hurry given that the
group is operating at a breakeven level, especially following a Worker Adjustment and Retraining
Notification (WARN) Act notice for the segment's Pinnacle Complex in West Virginia and despite
"depressed" metallurgical pricing (amm.com, Aug. 8), Goncalves said. "We'll make sure that our coal
business does not consume much (capital expenditure) nor put a drain on our overall profitability," he
said.
Cliffs' North American Coal wing recorded adjusted Ebitda of $6.1 million in the third quarter and
negative adjusted Ebitda of $32.2 million in the first nine months of the year, according to earnings
data.

Page141of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."In summary, North American Coal is a zero-Ebitda player until we find a buyer," Goncalves said.
The company still plans to permanently close its Wabush Scully mine in Newfoundland and Labrador,
which has been idle since the first quarter of 2014, he said. "By the end of the year, Wabush Scully will
be completely erased from the portfolio."

CO
IN

NS

RE

ccic : Cliffs Natural Resources Inc
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | i111 : Coal Mining | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | i1 :
Energy | i22 : Primary Metals | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
c18 : Ownership Changes | c182 : Asset Transactions | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News
Filter
usa : United States | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North
America
Cliffs Natural Resources

IPD
PUB Metal Bulletin Limited
AN

Document AMM0000020141105eab500009

Page142of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.