Copper comes up gold for Bob the explorer

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Copper comes up gold for Bob the explorer

Peter Ker
576 words
4 November 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
14
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

They may not come around very often, but when takeover bids do emerge for copper and gold miner
PanAust, they tend to pay off nicely for Bob Bryan.
The legendary Queensland explorer and former BRW Rich-Lister made a cool $44 million in 1989
when PanAust's forebear, PanAustralian Mining, was acquired by Robert Champion de Crespigny's
Normandy group. Mr Bryan revived the brand in 1996 when, as founding chairman, he started the
current version of PanAust under its then name, PanAustralian Resources.

He was the biggest shareholder at times during the company's first few years, and in 1998 his
26.7 million shares gave him a stake of just over 30 per cent.

The stock averaged 89¢ between 1996 and 1998.

Fast forward to May 2014, and Mr Bryan was still PanAust's sixth biggest shareholder when
Guangdong Rising Asset Management (GRAM) made an informal, indicative but incomplete offer to
buy the company for $2.30 a share.

The approach saw the stock rise by 54 per cent over a three-month period.

When asked by Fairfax Media on the day the GRAM approach was announced, Mr Bryan said the
Chinese group should be encouraged to improve its bid.Long hard offer turns off shareholder

"There is obviously an appetite and appetites are to be encouraged in most situations, and I think this
is such a situation," he said.

"It gives me a lot of confidence and pleasure that the managing director has such a significant
shareholding in the company and that means his interests will be well aligned with the rest of us
shareholders."

A takeover by GRAM or any other suitor now appears unlikely, but that doesn't mean Mr Bryan and
some other shareholders didn't make hay while the sun shone.
Despite still being listed by Bloomberg as the seventh biggest shareholder in PanAust with 7.6 million
shares, Mr Bryan told Fairfax Media this week he was no longer a shareholder in the copper miner,
having sold out during the past six months of takeover speculation.

"I have sold out my interest in PanAust," he said.

Mr Bryan did not reveal the exact date of his divestment, but if sold at the average price since GRAM's
interest was announced in May, $2.13 a share, his stake would have been worth more than
$16 million.

Page167of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."I gave up on this bid some little time ago, it just seemed to all be taking too long and being too hard,
and I think it is very sensible for the company to get on [with normal business]," he said.

"I have absolutely no idea what GRAM's continued interest may or may not be, but it all took too long
for me."

PanAust shares have returned to trading below $1.80, but on Thursday PanAust managing director
Gary Stafford said the elevated share price during the takeover saga had at least given shareholders a
temporary opportunity to sell out at a high price. "The share price for the company actually went
through the $2.30 ceiling for a period of time, and people had an opportunity to trade out of the stock at
around that informal offer price or in the near vicinity of it for quite a period of time, so from our
perspective that was probably a healthy opportunity for our shareholders," he said.

CO
IN
NS
RE
PUB
AN

brucer : Panaust Limited
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
ceffic : Corporate Restructuring | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c11 : Plans/Strategy
queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141103eab40001y

Page168of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.