Gunson back on the radar

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Wealth
Gunson back on the radar

BARRY FITZGERALD
1,110 words
2 September 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
22
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Mike Collings and Torrens have given it a new lease of life

Gunson Resources (GUN) A FRESH set of eyes has added a much-needed second string to Gunson
Resources’ bow.

The second string is the company’s Mount Gunson copper project in South Australia which, funnily
enough, is why Gunson is called Gunson. But the project has been going nowhere for a long time,
due to metallurgical issues.

While Mount Gunson was parked on the bench, Gunson became better known for its Coburn mineral
sands project in Western Australia, which is limbo land at the moment.
But Mount Gunson is back on the radar in a big way — for a company with a 2.2c share price and
$6.4 million market capitalisation anyway — thanks to Mike Collings and his partners at the privately
owned Torrens Mining, an outfit that could well list one day.

Collings, both an engineer and geologist, has been knocking about the industry for 40 years and with
his mates at Torrens, he enjoys scouring the industry looking for hidden value.

He reckons that he has found a gem within Gunson at its namesake Mount Gunson project,
specifically its MG14 and Windabout copper-cobalt-silver deposits, about 40km south of Woomera.

Gunson needs a new focus just at the moment, too, as while its Coburn mineral sands project is
dressed up and ready to go, financing the development at a time when zircon prices aren’t being
helpful is understandably tough, which is why it is seeking a partner with deeper pockets to pick up
the running.
Back at MG14/Windabout, Torrens is earning a 51 per cent stake by sole funding all tests and
studies needed to confirm that the metals locked up in fine-grained black shale seams can in fact be
extracted profitably.

Conventional flotation metal recovery doesn’t do the job on the black shales, but the Torrens boys,
drawing on collective industry memories stretching back decades, reckon a sodium cyanide leaching
process will do the trick.

As cyanide is expensive stuff, a processing route that recaptures and re-uses the stuff is a must.
Working off flowsheets developed in the US in the 1960s, benchtop laboratory work by the
Torrens/Gunson partnership has shown some real promise.
Copper recoveries of 80-85 per cent and cyanide regeneration of more than 80 per cent have been
achieved, prompting the decision to now move to the pre-feasibility study stage, meaning likely
capital costs and operating costs can be worked up.

Page16of186©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The results leave the 54-68 per cent copper recoveries from a 2010 test program using conventional
sulphide flotation in the shade. It’s early days and the eventual outcome is uncertain.

But it is certainly worth a short given MG14/Windabout are known to contain more than 200,000
tonnes of copper, plus valuable amounts of cobalt.
An eventual development producing some 10,000 tonnes of copper and 450 tonnes of high-value
cobalt annually would be the ultimate aim. That sort of potential means that it can be said that in the
case of Gunson, its Coburn mineral sands project comes for free in its current share price. Two
(projects) for the price of one as it were.
Doray Minerals (DRM) APART from its mid-July run to $US1340 an ounce, it has to be said that gold
is looking fairly friendless at current levels of $US1282 an ounce, due mainly to Chinese buying
cooling, and the strength of the US dollar.

Still, up or down, movement can make for opportunities, particularly where some other negative
factors are at play and a gold stock becomes oversold.

Doray Minerals, which began production at its high-grade Andy Well operation in WA’s northern
Murchison region in August last year, is a case in point.
While gold’s lacklustre performance has cast a shadow over all gold stocks, Doray has been doubly
punished for dilution issues at Andy Well.
Since its quarterly report showing grades of less than 9 grams of gold a tonne in the June quarter —
the market had got used to double-digit grades — the stock has tumbled 25 per cent lower to the
62.5c on offer yesterday.
Dilution is always an issue when it comes to the underground mining of narrow, high-grade veins. It
is an issue that will come and go, and in the case of Andy Well, it hasn’t stopped it enjoying positive
reconciliation of (profitable) production to reserve expectations.

Duncan Hughes at GMP Securities has come back from a visit to the operation and reckons head
grades are likely to remain at about 9g a tonne, which means cash costs of more than $700 an
ounce, as Doray itself has forecast for the 2015 financial year.

But with 45 per cent of its production hedged at an estimated $1530 an ounce, healthy margins are
also the order of the day. So much so that GMP’s target price on the stock of 86c a share should be
of interest to traders in gold stocks.

And as always with Doray, the potential for additional exploration success to add to its relatively short
mine life, and ratchet up valuations, remains on the cards.
Universal Coal (UNV) THERE has been chatter out of South Africa that ASX-listed Universal Coal
has received some serious backing for its growth ambitions in the country, one that is relying more
than ever on coal to overcome its power supply issues.
The chatter was that the German-traded coal investment group IchorCoal is about to pump about
$24m in to Universal through both ordinary and preferred share placements at big premiums to the
group’s share price of 12.5c.

On that sort of scale, IchorCoal would end up owning about 18 per cent of the ordinary shares, and
eventually as much as 30 per cent on the preferred shares being converted, all of which shareholders
get to vote on.
The cash injection would allow Universal to complete the $17m acquisition of the New Clydesdale
coal (NCC) operation from SA’s Exxaro. NCC adjoins Universal’s Roodekop project, with NCC’s
infrastructure base allowing for an accelerated development of Roodekop.

More to the point is that following the successful start-up of its Kangala coalmine, the acceleration of
NCC/Roodekop as Universal’s second SA operation means it is on its way to becoming a producer of
some 4.6 million tonnes of coal annually, from which sales would come in at about 3.5 million
tonnes.It is a growth story that no junior in this market can match.

CO
IN
NS

gunaus : Gunson Resources Ltd
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News

Page17of186©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140901ea920001s

Page18of186©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.