Twiggy’s united agrarian front to feed China

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Twiggy’s united agrarian front to feed China

916 words
24 July 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
28
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

krygsman’s view Healthscope CEO Robert Cooke Continued from Page 19 Fonterra Australia boss
Judith Swales the latest in an interview with The Australian yesterday.

The New Zealand giant’s financial year closes on July 31 and Swales, while not commenting on
financial performance, acknowledged she has work to do to lift Australian returns to more acceptable
levels.

The slump in global powder prices comes at a bad time for both Murray Goulburn and Fonterra as
they attempt to talk up local production which, at about 9.2 billion litres, is well down on records set in
2001 of closer to 11.2 billion litres.

The slump in prices is estimated to hit farm gate prices but not to the extent of the 40 per cent global
slump that was due to increased supply from New Zealand, Europe and the US and stockpiling in
China.
Farm gate prices hit a record $6.90 per kilogram of milk solid, or about 53c a litre, but are tipped to fall
70c this year if the global prices continue dropping.

The global fall also comes as Murray-Goulburn chief Gary Helou prepares to do a roadshow in
September to spruik his financial capital raising plans.

Falling farm gate prices will not boost sentiment ahead of those talks. For Swales it’s a matter of
boosting production through more innovative products and leveraging the fact that five of the top
seven dairy brands in Australia are Fonterra brands.
She ruled out any imminent move on Bega, saying she was happy with the 10 per cent stake and the
commercial relationship with the company.

Retirement challenge FINANCE Minister Mathias Cormann’s plans to reform retirement policy have
done wonders for Challenger’s stock price, which yesterday topped $8 a share for the first time before
closing up 2.1 per cent at a record high of $7.98 a share.

Bell Potter is tipping a $9.30-a-share price for the stock, which has risen some 28.7 per cent this
calendar year, after posting a total return of 80 per cent last financial year, bringing in market
capitalisation at $4.2 billion.

The move is due — depending on to whom you talk — to chief executive Brian Benari’s brilliance or
word that Canberra has finally woken to the need to reform the pension phase of the national
retirement policy.

Pricing Healthscope BOOKBUILD brokers Macquarie Bank will today settle a price around $2.15 a
share for Healthscope, or some 22 times earnings, at just a 10 per cent discount to the almighty
Ramsay Healthcare.

The final price and amount of stock held by the vendors Carlyle and TPG is still an open question but
against a midpoint of $2.03 a share the tip is for something between $2.05 and $2.20 a share.

Page77of234©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The company is forecasting a 9.3 per cent increase in earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortisation of up to $387.3 million this year on a 5.8 per cent increase in revenues to $2.4bn.

This will convert a $145m loss for the year just past to a $147.2m profit. Chief executive Robert Cooke
will ensure these numbers are met, but any excitement will have to wait until year two.

Against a market multiple of around 15 times, the stock is expensive on any measure, but Cooke is a
highly regarded hospital manager and on his fourth private-equity healthcare roundabout, so he
knows the game as well as he knows good oysters when he sees them.

It is timed superbly as the overall market is perceived to be close to a near-term high. At $2.15 a share
it will be trading at 22 times earnings, which is a 10 per cent discount to Ramsay. That is about right
but, while few doubt it, Healthscope will get its earnings numbers in the first year but it won’t set the
world on fire.

So why only a 10 per cent discount? The answer is in part because Ramsay has been through its
local expansion phase and Cooke has that before him. His relationship with health insurers and other
providers is still being refined and in, other words, it is a work in progress.
The local pathology unit is a dog while the offshore business in New Zealand, Singapore and
Malaysia has real growth potential against some concerns the Ramsay French purchases were cheap
for a reason, which doesn’t leave much room for upside. The sector can only get better when you
consider private hospitals account for 33 per cent of hospital beds in Australia, 41 per cent of hospital
visits and 67 per cent of elective surgery.

If you back Healthscope management, then arguably it is because of the local growth option, which is
something Ramsay’s Chris Rex will dispute, with some validity.

Cooke has cleverly chased blue sky offshore with the usual mixed local reaction and has two hospital
giants in Perth and Hollywood, which arguably indicates he is nearing a local peak.

The float was cleverly managed to limit supply at the discretion of the managers with Carlyle and TPG
able to scale back from 40 per cent to 25 per cent and the so-called cornerstone $1.7bn allocation
also movable.From today, the rationale for the valuation will need to be shown and both Cooke and
Rex are ready for the battle.

hesco : Healthscope Ltd | mryglb : Murray Goulburn Co-operative Company Limited
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i413 : Dairy Products | i951 : Health Care/Life Sciences | i95107 :
Hospital Care | icnp : Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products | iphhp : Healthcare Provision
cslmc : Senior Level Management | niex : Interviews with Corporate Executives | c41 : Management
Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex :
FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | nitv : Interviews
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140723ea7o00014

CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page78of234©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.