China clears the way for foreign splurge

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

PrimeSpace
China clears the way for foreign splurge

FLORENCE CHONG, INVESTMENT
476 words
16 October 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
29
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

CHINA’S relaxation of rules on outbound investment by domestic companies this month is expected to
lift Chinese investment in real estate in key markets, including Australia.

New rules regulating overseas investment, first mooted in April, have come into effect and mean
Chinese investors no longer require prior government approval for foreign investments valued at more
than $US100 million ($115m).

Alistair Meadows, head of international capital group, Asia-Pacific, with global firmJones Lang
LaSalle, told The Australian the new rules would make it easier for Chinese companies to buy assets
on-market in Australia and elsewhere.
Chinese capital had previously struggled to compete in the on-market sales process as companies
could not get the appropriate approval from authorities during sales campaigns, Mr Meadows said.
This had forced Chinese investors to instead chase off-market deals or seek extended settlements.

Under the new rules, prospective buyers are able to transact on a deal without approval from the
Chinese Ministry of Commerce.

Mr Meadows said he expected the flow of outbound capital to preferred destinations such as Australia
to increase following the switch.
JLL was working with Chinese buyers, including new entrants, on a number of deals, with values
ranging from $100m to $500m for a portfolio of income-producing assets, in Australia, he said.
But Mr Meadows would not be drawn into providing details on the deals the firm was working on with
Chinese buyers.
The Australian recently reported that the Hong Kong-listed Shimao Property Holdings, controlled by
Chinese billionaire Hui Wing Mau, is in due diligence on Sydney’s 175 Liverpool Street in a $400m
play.
If Mr Hui’s Shimao succeeds, it will join other newcomers from China, including Dalian Wanda Group,
founded by China’s richest man, Wang Jianlin, and Country Garden, led by China’s richest woman,
Yang Huiyan.
Foreign investment in Australian residential real estate has become a hot political topic, with Liberal
MP Kelly O’Dwyer, who is leading the parliamentary inquiry on the issue, saying yesterday it would
recommend tougher screening for foreign investors.
Chinese investment in Australian commercial real estate, including development sites, rose from
$US1.4 billion in 2011 to almost $US3.6bn in the 12 months to September, according to JLL statistics.
Globally, total Chinese offshore property investments have quadrupled from $US4bn to $US32bn in
the same period.

Page98of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Megan Walters, JLL’s head of research, Asia Pacific Capital markets, said a slight movement in capital
from China, which last year deployed $US14bn in commercial real estate overseas, would have a
significant impact on Australia. Dr Walters expects a surge of capital from China on “a large and
increasing scale”.“The new rules may also benefit the domestic economy, where the government is
looking to reduce investment in areas with excess capacity,” she said.

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141015eaag00032

Page99of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.