High-rise boom lifts cranes

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
High-rise boom lifts cranes

Michael Bleby and Nick Lenaghan
881 words
16 October 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
43
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

The inner-city apartment boom is making its mark on central business district skylines, as the
number of cranes devoted to high-rise residential construction soars.

The number of cranes in mainland city skylines rose 5 per cent to 324 in September from 308 in
March, underpinned by soaring residential construction in Melbourne.

The crane count, devised by Rider Levett Bucknall, and which the quantity surveyor has recently
trademarked as a precursor to rolling out the half-yearly report in other countries, has become a
handy index to gauge the strength of the construction sector.

Cranes in the Victorian capital rose to 93 in September from 61 in March. Twenty-nine were taken
down and 61 erected in that time, the index shows.
Residential cranes jumped from 45 to 73, accounting for 78 per cent of all cranes in the city, up from
70 per cent in March.
The crane count is no surprise to Jeff Xu of the Golden Age Development Group, who has all but
sold out his Victoria One project, currently the tallest residential project in the Melbourne CBD.
With construction work to begin next month, Mr Xu will be putting up cranes at that site by early next
year.
The Chinese-born developer, who arrived in Melbourne in 1998, also hopes to get the cranes
moving on a prize Collins Street residential site he acquired last week with approval for a 55-level
tower. "The amount of cranes now in Melbourne city is only the same as the amount of cranes on a
couple of big projects in a medium-sized city in China," Mr Xu said.

"It's really not many, although for Melbourne, compared to six years ago it is a lot of cranes."
Residential cranes made up 62 per cent of the total, up from 61 in March. Commercial cranes held
at 16 per cent. Health work-related cranes fell to 6 per cent from 9 per cent in March, reflecting
slowing health infrastructure spend.

Sydney's skyline saw a fall to 119 from 125. Activity in the country's largest city remained strong, with
the 62 cranes erected over the six-month period almost equalling the 68 taken down.

"The market is dynamic," said Stephen Ballesty, RLB's head of research. "We're seeing a high
degree of utilisation of available cranes, reflecting stable markets. Cranes are moving from site to
site."Signs of a changing sector
The Sydney figures also show a changing construction sector, with residential cranes slipping to
56 per cent of the total, down from 62 per cent. Commercial cranes rose to 14 per cent from 10 per
cent.

Page86of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The survey, based on research done in September, reports nine cranes at Sydney's Barangaroo
construction site. Developer Lend Lease, which is building the three-tower Barangaroo South, on
Wednesday said there are currently 11 cranes on site and it doesn't expect to erect more this year.

Recreation-related cranes got a boost with new cranes at Darling Harbour and Revesby, the report
says.

Lend Lease said it has six cranes at Darling Harbour Live and will erect one more in November. It will
add further cranes next year when the hotel and Darling Square parts of the project start next year.
Brisbane's total remained steady at 50, with 35 taken down and the same number put up over the
period.
Residential work makes up 74 per cent of the total.Not included in the Brisbane count was 10-crane
site of the new $1.8 billion Sunshine Coast Public University Hospital project.
In Perth, where the loss of two cranes clipped the total to 40 from 42 in March, commercial work
dominates, with almost half of them – 48 per cent, up from 43 per cent in March – dedicated to
projects including the May Holman centre, Perth Library and 933 Hay St.Four new cranes went up
over the period at the new Crown Towers development at Burswood.

In Adelaide, the completion of a number of projects, such as the first stage of the convention centre
redevelopment, cut the city's total to eight cranes from 14.The largest project, the New Royal
Adelaide Hospital, meant a reduction to 5 cranes from 7.

Canberra's total slipped to seven from nine. Darwin's was steady at seven, with no cranes removed
and none erected. Newcastle's crane count doubled to two.

For the first time, RLB published a crane index for southern Africa, showing 89 in South Africa, 17 in
Mozambique and two in Mauritius. It plans similar reports in the Middle East and northern America.
Mr Xu said Melbourne's high-rise residential market was better understood as part of the global
market,

"The number of cranes shows the confidence of the market. If you don't have presales, if you don't
have bank approval, if you don't have a builder, the cranes won't start."

Mr Xu said the Sydney market was undersupplied due to the lengthy planning process while
Melbourne was supported by its affordable prices.

Mr Xu said he was often asked whether he was worried about the strength of the markets. "To be
frank, I have no time to worry."

IN

RE

PUB
AN

i3255 : Handling Equipment | ireest : Real Estate | i32 : Machinery | icre : Real Estate/Construction |
iindstrls : Industrial Goods
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia
Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | queensl : Queensland
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141015eaag0002i

Page87of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.