Boeing chief to tackle China

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Finance
Boeing chief to tackle China

STEVE CREEDY
397 words
24 January 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
1 - All-round Country
17
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

AVIATION: Boeing Australia and South Pacific president Ian Thomas is moving to take on the key
China market after five years running the aerospace giant's antipodean operations.

Mr Thomas, 48, took over the Sydney-based role in 2009 after two years as president of Boeing
India. His replacement could be announced as early as next week.

``Ian Thomas is one of our most experienced leaders in international markets,'' Boeing International
president Shep Hill said. ``He has made a significant impact on our business in Australia and is well
suited to lead our activities in China, with a focus on further growing our business in one of the
world's most dynamic markets for commercial aircraft.''

Australia represents Boeing's biggest footprint outside the US with 3400 staff in 27 locations. The
company's operations here generate revenues of more than $1 billion, with almost $14bn of sales
in the past four years. Composite technology developed in Melbourne is being adopted throughout
Boeing.

During his tenure, Mr Thomas has been a keen supporter of Australia's potential to take on hi-tech
manufacturing in areas such as aerospace and clean technology. He told the Sir Charles Kingsford
Smith memorial lecture in Sydney last year there was a solid future for manufacturing in Australia as
new vistas opened and allowed the nation to compete.

Mr Thomas's new role will include a strong focus on new business and industrial partnership
opportunities, corporate citizenship projects, and expanding Boeing's presence and relationships with
customers and other stakeholders.

In another high-level change, Jet Airways chief executive Gary Toomey quit the post last week after
just six months in the job.

The former Ansett boss and Qantas chief financial officer joined Jet Airways after Etihad took a 24
per cent stake in the airline and quit with immediate effect last week. He had previously been the
chief executive of Airlines PNG.

India's Business Standard newspaper quoted an unnamed Jet Airways source who said Mr Toomey
wanted to spend time with his family, who were not keen on living in India, and said there had also
differences with chairman Naresh Goyal.
Etihad bought a 24 per cent stake in Jet Airways for $US379 million after the Indian government
changed the law to allow foreign airlines to invest in domestic carriers.

AVIATION P23

CO

boeing : The Boeing Company

Page266of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

i364 : Aerospace Products/Parts | i3640010 : Civil Aircraft | iaer : Aerospace/Defense | iindstrls :
Industrial Goods
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140123ea1o0001y

Page267of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.