DATA ROOM

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
DATA ROOM

Edited by Bridget Carter and Gretchen Friemann
1,130 words
25 November 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
20
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

FlexiGroup may lack puff for GE race DOUBTS are starting to emerge about whether FlexiGroup will
remain in the race to buy General Electric’s $7.5 billion-plus Australian and New Zealand consumer
lending business.

Shares in FlexiGroup closed almost 3 per cent lower at $3.05 yesterday after trading at more than $4
in September, and some say the company won’t have the firepower to complete a deal, even if it bids
with a partner.

Potential suitors have begun digesting the details in the information memorandum for the GE business
and have found it could be more profitable than originally thought. Stripping out overheads, some say
the group’s annual net profit is at least $250 million.
Based on a sale struck on a multiple of eight times earnings, a cheque of about $2bn would need to be
written — almost double original estimates. So it is hard to see how FlexiGroup could make a deal
work, sources say.

As groups and advisers trawl through the financials of GE’s assets, being sold through Credit Suisse
and Morgan Stanley, bidding consortiums remain in the early formation stages.
It is understood searching for a partner to buy the business is private equity giant TPG Capital,
stepping up its interest in being a strong contender in the contest.

Some say the Government Investment Corporation of Singapore is being targeted as a potential
backer, after earlier being flagged as a group that could join with FlexiGroup.

It is understood Macquarie has been in talks about forming a consortium with Pepper Group and York
Capital, but the latest expectation is that perhaps Blackstone could join with Macquarie or even TPG,
while Pepper may not be part of the cluster. Other potential bidders are Wesfarmers, KKR, Westpac,
and for the New Zealand assets only, Heartland Bank.

The offer comprises store finance, credit cards and personal loans, while a small loan book for cars is
also in the mix.
Banks clear winners THE Medibank hype reaches fever pitch today, as the $5.7 billion government
health insurer lists on the Australian Securities Exchange.
But the celebrations won’t be had just by the government but by the deal’s joint lead managers,
Macquarie Group, Goldman Sachs and Deutsche.

The teams are all hoping their role in the high-profile initial public offering will offer not just a major haul
of fees, but propel their banks higher up the investment banking league tables.

Page62of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.According to calculations from Dealogic, Macquarie Capital will remain at number one when it comes
to the IPO bookrunner stakes after Medibank is taken into account, but UBS will fall from number two
to number four.

The biggest winner is shaping up to be Deutsche in terms of its ranking, rising from number nine to
three thanks to the government deal.

Moving from fourth to second place is Goldman Sachs.
Goldman also leads the rankings when it comes to equity capital markets deals this year as a whole,
ahead of Macquarie, UBS and Citi. Much of the ranking by dollar value has been attributed to
Goldman’s role in Shell’s $6.1bn exit out of Woodside Petroleum earlier this year, $3.2bn of which was
subject to a block trade.

But Goldman’s also worked on the IPO of the $4bn private hospital operator Healthscope and
Transurban’s $2.7bn capital raising for its purchase of Queensland Motorways.
By number of deals, Macquarie dominates — not just IPOs but equity railings as well.

Including Macquarie’s latest IPO deals Aconex and oOh!Media, the group would have executed 15
IPOs in 2014, almost 50 per cent more than its closest competitor UBS, which has 10.

Meanwhile, one of the points of contention among banks that weren’t on the Medibank ticket is to do
with a clause in the prospectus, which describes the commonwealth government as the IPO
bookrunner with the role of allocating shares.
Some had questioned whether on this basis, the joint lead managers would win league table credit on
the deal, as were anticipating.

However, Dealogic’s stance is that if no bank is named as bookrunner, top-tier managers on the deal
will be credited in the league tables.

Paladin fights back SHORT-SELLERS, those shadowy harbingers of gloom, have been piling into
Paladin in abundance over the past year but a well-structured $205m fund raise may finally have lifted
the uranium miner out of a black hole.

If the market reacts positively over the next few months, the deal may prove a model for other
hard-pressed resources companies. Take Whitehaven, for instance. Like Paladin, it too has a hefty
debt burden, with the first interest coverage ratio test on some $1.2bn falling due in December next
year.
The trump card for the uranium miner was the advance of Hopu Clean Energy, which is based in
Singapore and forms part of the influential Chinese private equity firm.

Under the terms of a $61m placement and $144m non-renounceable rights offer to institutional and
retail investors, Hopu, is expected to gain a 15 per cent slice of Paladin.
Crucially, the firm, which is backed by Singapore’s sovereign wealth fund Temasek, as well as the
Chinese Investment Corporation, will also provide much-needed clout when it comes to negotiating
prospective uranium contracts in China.
By drafting in Hopu, Paladin and its sole lead manager on the deal, JPMorgan, hope to deal a deathly
blow to the short-sellers. These opportunists account for close to 11 per cent of the miner’s register.
But the shorts now face a big squeeze. A negative stance was justifiable at the start of the year when
Paladin’s debt outweighed its market capitalisation but as uranium prices rebound and a large-scale
cash infusion deals with $300m of convertible bonds, due in November next year, that position looks
ropy.
Fattened for market TPG’s outlay on the $880 million poultry empire, Inghams Enterprises, is starting
to look like chicken feed.
The private equity giant, run by Ben Gray in Australia, reaped $550m from the sale of Ingham’s
property portfolio this month and is in the midst of a refinancing that will deliver $550m too in a
dividend repayment.
Little wonder then that many believe the company is being fattened for market. While Inghams
contends with two large rivals, the barriers to entry in this sector remain relatively high due to concerns
over the health of imported chickens.A rigorous cost-out since the buyout in March 2013 has fuelled

Page63of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.hopes in some circles of a possible $1 billion IPO of the company in the first half of 2015. Others
point to TPG’s track record of fast-paced floats.

NS

RE
PUB
AN

c1711 : Initial Public Offerings | c02 : Corporate Changes | c14 : Stock Listings | c17 : Funding/Capital |
c171 : Share Capital | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141124eabp0002a

Page64of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.