CHAT ROOM 0416 905 148

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
CHAT ROOM 0416 905 148

1,584 words
5 April 2014
Gold Coast Bulletin
GCBULL
GoldCoast
42
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

BIKE LAWS The new pushbike laws r work’n I have seen 10 cyclists with no helmet just in 1 day? –
RonnyJ I am sorry to say it doesn’t matter what laws you create for cyclist vs. cars, the two just don’t mix
on the road and were never meant to, accidents will always happen. gp Bikes — when I was young you
weren’t allowed to ride bikes on the footpath — including children. So now they need the road and the
footpath, and we have to look out for them on the road. Who’s looking out for the pedestrians who have
the share the footpath?

Bugger the measurements, long as a bike rider and my car don’t collide, that’s good enough for me.
Who’s going to do the measuring anyway. — Justine OK so now the cars have to be 1 meter away from
the bikes. Heres an idea. They have a bike lane and they ride on the line closest to the cars. Lets put a
second line they have to stay within 6 inches from the gutter. Their wheels are only an inch wide ... Makes
sense Please explain how they are going to find and fine the law breaking pushbike riders. – rocket

TROUBLE BREWING Re the temperature of coffee. It is meant to be around 65 degrees. Any hotter and
the flavour is less. — Barista of ten years plus A good coffee is not meant to be scalding hot as it negates
the flavour. Coffee is not a soup or a tea so if you want it extra hot just ask. Coffee is like wine, some
people wouldn’t have a clue what a good 1 should taste like. Baristas have to make coffee to a certain
temp of 65 to 70 degrees, most people these days like to drink their coffee so it doesn’t burn their mouths,
myself I like my coffee hot so I ask the Barista to make it hotter for me AND THE REST To the unknown
Chat Roomer who suggested G/Coast tourism boost, a State of Origin on the coast C/Bus stadium
capacity 25 Thousand Suncorp 53 Thousand & sells out in 20 miss. You are no chance of moving it. —
Terry Zarsoff Wendy I think the police horse could be responsible. – Barney I can’t understand why the
light rail was put at ground level. The footprint for an elevated light rail like Dubai, and many other
country’s is so small, and it can all be precast off site except the 4m square foundation. Why would you
compete with cars in the same space. I think the planers need to get out more! — Glyn I thought the
annoying & aggressive touts had been driven out of Surfers! Apparently not! Sick of seeing & hearing
them try to sell tickets to everything & scamming people with promises of best night of your lives & plenty
of girls & booze & sex & cheap apartments, thought you stopped all this crap GCCC! — Kris Anthony
watts vs. Paul gallon there’s a boxing match id pay to see. my moneys on gallon.

One question Mr Tate how much is the dredging going to cost for CST and who is going to pay this
FOREVER everyone would love to know. — GC Knight NW@S A Mullet of Bogans says it all.:-)KP A
‘Tattoo of Bogans’ A ‘Jail of Bogans’ a ‘Centrelink of Bogans’ Doctors Lawyers and Politicians all want to
become millionaires. Ciao What happened to NBN playing the opposite game to ch 9 on fri nights. Give
us back the choice. So sick of watching the stinkin’ broncos. Coaster They should have started the light
rail at the Helensvale train station first. The way it is now you have to catch a bus from the tram to train.
Genius.

How Can Councillors Representing This Beautiful Gold Coast Ever Vote In Favour Of This CST With The
Little Knowledge The Proponents Have Tabled, Along With The Knowledge Of Environmental Disasters
That Will Happen As Researched By Professionals & Prior Governments & Councils. — Knowledgeable
How do the Liberal Party convince voters that Labour left the economy in a mess when Australia survived
the GFC & left with a AAA credit rating? If we are in a mess how can we afford $5 billion pa extra for

Page274of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PPL, counselling for newlyweds & knighthoods. Where does this play money come from? — Poida Ciao
— I agree with you — how many hard up doctors have you ever seen? Melb. storm just take the
suspension on the chin .be rude to fight it so have a little respect for mckinnon whats 7 wks when u guys
get to play again unlike alex. Gazz Well done SSGT Bradyn Murphy regarding that foolish P plater and
his idiotic antics unfortunately this is a common theme among that age group. They think they know
everything but they are all as green as grass when it comes not only to driving but life itself. — Reg Get
sick of hearing schools saying kids can’t go there cause they live out of a certain area. A child’s education
is more important than what school they live closer too. Sort this rubbish out Newman. That’s y u got
voted in. — Angry parent For goodness sake — how are our out-of-date councillors going to understand
the CST plans. Never. Just get on and build the bloody thing. It will be a great asset for the Coast. —
Crispy.

Re the people camping at the spit now What’s ya problem. They are just kids living the life between
school and a life of work. Try stopping and say g’day who are they hurting at spit just think they are your
kids on a trip make them welcome they are tourists. We are a tourist town. Leave em alone not drive em
away. — Gm Re illegal camper at coolangatta. Leave them alone, what harm do they cause u?, the only
reason u have a problem with it is you’re jealous. — Treeman I imagine BP will save money by sacking
workers this should reduce the price of petrol. – Nev. K I would like 2 thank all the ratepayers of the Gold
Coast 4 allowing us Seniors 2 access free bus travel. It really does help in a big way. — Dis.

Bernie where are the 36000 jobs gonna come from? Ron southport Could someone please tell me what
the speed limit is travelling south/against the flow of traffic, along hedges ave is. Concerned local.
Chris Robbins ... Re: Last weeks LUDICROUS comments about the southern GC economy. Business
has NEVER been worse in Griffith St Coolangatta. (Eg count the VACANT SHOPS!) And the sooner
people like u start supporting and lobbying for ’game changing’ ideas like CSTs, light and heavy rail to the
GC airport, and OCEANWAY TOURIST WALKS. the sooner things will turn around! — Tourism Reliant
Business, GRIFFITH ST, Coolangatta.

ICan somebody tell me how 36,000 jobs will be created by the Cruise Ship terminal? What will this
number of people be doing on a day-to-day basis.? Can’t imagine that many people altogether except at
a footy match. Where would they park their cars while they are at work? My mind boggles. – Cranky
Gran Arthur Sinodinos via his answers in the ICAC Investigation that he has a dreadful memory. I hope
he remembers to put his clocks back on Sunday.
When the Govt has sold all our major assets, ours not theirs, it will then be necessary to rent them back.
What’s next, toll fees to use our suburban streets, walk ways and parks.

Go the Gold Coast boys Blair and Paul, you deserve to win MKR, delicious food beautifully plated and
great attitudes, no temper tantrums or bitchy remarks, we are all very proud of you and wish you every
success.

NW @ S, Its called a Legend of Bogan and a Flock of Surfers, BAH! - The pottsvillian Is the NRL serious
with expelling the player that made the Alex McKinnon tackle for 7 weeks? As if Jordan wouldn’t feel bad
enough, they find him guilty of a tackle that had no malice in it at all. I find him not guilty as there is a
thousand tackles worse than that every year that don’t go on report. The NRL should amend the decision
and find themselves guilty and hang their heads in shame. Thoughts r with the McKinnon family and
friends. – Treeman Campbell Newman and all Qld politicians after your massive obscene pay rises don’t
ever tell us again Qld is broke and there’s no money! – Komrade Karl Saw adults get off bus at nerang
and Edmund rice dr and cross busy street illegally while students used traffic lights crossing wonder who
is leading by example now.

Have lived in Surfers for 10 years & Hanlon St. has always been congested tram or no tram.

I’f the cruise ship terminal is to be within the Broadwater the burning question would seem to be – where
will the 13 metre deep turning basin more than 300 metres in diameter be located?

get a defacto australia card with a qld drivers license whats on the chip and who makes them and where?
– Dissidential ThoughtIdiot P plater on Bermuda St. should have licence taken off of him forever, no if’s
no but’s gone forever.

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

NS
RE
PUB News Ltd.
AN

Document GCBULL0020140406ea450001h

Page275of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Page276of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.