Rinehart steps up cattle spree Rinehart continues cattle station spree

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

General
Rinehart steps up cattle spree Rinehart continues cattle station spree

EXCLUSIVE Brad Thompson
462 words
26 November 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
First
1
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

Gina Rinehart is finalising the purchase of four cattle stations covering more than one million
hectares of WA as she continues one of the biggest spending sprees in the history of the industry.

Australia’s richest person is set to become the owner of Moola Bulla (394,236ha), Mt Amhurst
(259,201ha), Beefwood Park (205,555ha) and Shamrock Station (178,141ha) in the Kimberley in a
deal believed to be about $65 million.

It comes months after Mrs Rinehart’s Hancock Prospecting paid more than $70 million to grab a 50
per cent share in two stations covering 450,000ha in the heart of the Kimberley.

Her charge into agriculture appears far from over. Hancock Prospecting is already eyeing other
properties in northern Australia for cattle production, just a week after revealing a $500 million
investment in the Queensland dairy industry aimed at supplying infant formula to China.

The purchases are part of a joint venture with WA’s Milne AgriGroup and its owner Graham Laitt.

“This is a great investment for Australia, but there are still some significant conditions which must be
met before the sale goes through,” Hancock spokesman Jason Morrison said last night.
South African interests behind the SAWA Pastoral Company are selling the stations three years after
Moola Bulla manager Nico Botha threatened to shoot thousands of cattle stranded by the ban on live
exports to Indonesia.

Mr Botha’s grim warning helped overturn the ban imposed by the then-Labor government in response
to harrowing images of animal cruelty in Indonesia.
The sale hinges on the stations being compliant under State Government regulations on stocking
density and land management.
The Hancock-Milne joint venture company Liveringa Station Beef controls Liveringa and Nerrima
stations and the mothballed Waroona abattoir in the South West.
The Liveringa business plan is based on producing high volumes of prime beef for export, raising
long-term hopes that the Waroona abattoir could be reopened. Mr Laitt has spent a decade crossing
Angus and Brahman cattle to produce the Brangus breed and the Liveringa assets include irrigated
farmland, an artificial insemination centre and a 12,000-head feedlot.

Liveringa and Nerrima have been producing up to 17,000 cattle a year, with 50 per cent of them
trucked to farms in southern WA as weaners after the Kimberley wet season. They are fattened up for
live export or processing but Mr Laitt has made no secret of his desire to build the business around
an abattoir producing boxed beef for a range of markets.

Page217of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Meat and Livestock Australia is predicting the free trade agreement with China will provide an $11
billion boost for the industry over the next 15 years.

hkpros : Hancock Prospecting Pty. Ltd.
i412 : Animal Slaughtering/Processing | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp : Consumer Goods |
ifood : Food Products | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying
c312 : External Markets | c31 : Marketing/Markets | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document TWAU000020141125eabq0003q

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page218of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.