Agenda

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Lifestyle
Agenda

Jennani Durai
821 words
26 January 2014
Straits Times
STIMES
English
(c) 2014 Singapore Press Holdings Limited

Hong Kong, China
* The 42nd iteration of the popular Hong Kong Arts Festival opens next month, with plenty of big
names putting on shows and premieres.

Catch performances from world-class troupes such as British dance troupe Akram Khan Company,
which will be performing a piece entitled iTMOi, or In The Mind Of Igor, a contemporary response to
Igor Stravinsky's The Rite Of Spring.

German dance opera troupe Tanztheater Wuppertal Pina Bausch will perform Christoph Willibald
Gluck's opera Iphigenia In Tauris, while British theatre company Bristol Old Vic will stage A
Midsummer Night's Dream along with the South African Handspring Puppet Company.

Tickets start from HK$180 (S$30) for the lowest category of tickets to a dance performance.

When: Feb 18 to March 22

Info: www.hk.artsfestival.org

Rio De Janeiro, Brazil

* The world-famous Rio Carnival, believed to be the biggest carnival in the world, will draw around two
million people a day to the streets of the Brazilian city.

Beginning on the last day of February, street bands will line Rio De Janeiro's beaches and the city will
become a colourful hub of concerts, street parties and samba dancing.

Tickets to watch the event's highlight, the Samba Parade, start from US$76 (S$97) for the cheapest
grandstand seat.

When: Feb 28 to March 4

Info: www.rio-carnival.net

New Orleans, Louisiana, US

* Travel to The Big Easy to catch one of the world's most iconic parades next month. Mardi Gras, which
traditionally refers to "Fat Tuesday", the final day of revelry before the beginning of the season of Lent,
now encompasses the season of parades that starts two weeks earlier and lasts up till the day itself.

There is usually one parade a day, during which colourful floats roll through the streets and float-riders
toss trinkets such as beads, cups and stuffed animals to the audience.

Watching the parades is free, but tickets to the grandstand along St Charles Avenue - from which
visitors can watch the parades in comfort - cost between US$10 (S$12.80) and US$60, depending on
the parade.

Page194of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.When: Feb 15 to March 4

Info: www.mardigrasneworleans.com

Sapporo, Japan

* The seven-day Sapporo Snow Festival is one of Japan's largest winter events, attracting about two
million people every year.
The event, which takes place in three sites - Odori Park, Susukino and the Sapporo Community Dome
or Tsudome - features around 400 snow and ice sculptures.
The Tsudome site is more family-friendly than the other two and has snow slides, snow rafting, food
stands and a stage for events.

Statues often include depictions of people or events that made the news in the previous year. One
year's festival featured statues of Hideki Matsui, a former professional baseball player from Japan who
played for the New York Yankees.

Admission to the festival is free, but you will have to pay 700 yen (S$8.70) to gain access to the top
observatory deck of the Sapporo TV tower at the eastern end of Odori Park for the best view.

When: Feb 5 to 11

Info: www.snowfes.com

Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide and Perth, Australia

* Enjoy a bigger line-up of international artists than the local iteration of St Jerome's Laneway Festival
when the music festival goes to Melbourne on Saturday and then travels to Sydney, Adelaide and
Perth.

The festival will feature acts such as American rock band Haim, New Zealand singer-songwriter Lorde
and Norwegian DJ Cashmere Cat.
Tickets to the Melbourne and Sydney events are sold out, but you can still catch the festival when it
hits Adelaide and Perth. Tickets start from A$120 (S$133).

When: Saturday, Sunday, Feb 7 & 8

Info: lanewayfestival.com

London, England

* The play adaptation of George Orwell's classic novel 1984 will open in London's Almeida Theatre next
month. Successful productions at this theatre are often transferred to West End theatres.

The 1 hour 40 minute play, a new adaptation created by Robert Icke and Duncan Macmillan, is about a
man who dreams of rebellion against the totalitarian regime he lives under.

Tickets start from £8 (S$17) for previews.

When: Feb 8 to March 29

Info: www.whatsonstage.com/off-west-end-theatre/shows/1984_17653/

Clark, The Philippines

* The inaugural 7107 International Music Festival will take place next month in the city of Clark, and will
be headlined by American rock band Red Hot Chili Peppers.

Other international acts lined up to perform include American DJ Kaskade, Australian electronic music
duo Empire Of The Sun and American hip-hop artist Kendrick Lamar.

Tickets start from 10,000 pesos (S$281) for a two-day pass.

When: Feb 22 & 23

Info: 7107imf.com

Page195of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.ART

NS

RE

PUB
AN

A candidate of the Queen of Rio de Janeiro's Samba Carnival 2014 at a selection performance. --
PHOTO: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE
gtheat : Theater | gmusic : Music | gfesti : Festivals | gcat : Political/General News | gent :
Arts/Entertainment
austr : Australia | braz : Brazil | adelai : Adelaide | melb : Melbourne | saustr : South Australia | sydney :
Sydney | victor : Victoria (Australia) | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | lamz : Latin America | nswals : New South Wales | samz : South America
Singapore Press Holdings Limited
Document STIMES0020140125ea1q0001t

Page196of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.