Distant horizons promise sunny returns

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Chanticleer
Distant horizons promise sunny returns

Michael Smith
1,280 words
25 January 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
56
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

As the flag-waving and lamington consumption gets into full swing this Australia Day weekend, it may
disappoint the patriots out there to hear that some of the best returns in 2014 will be in companies that
generate a large proportion of their revenue from overseas.

With economies in the United States and Europe in recovery mode and the Australian dollar expected
to weaken further, stocks generating revenue in US dollars have a chance to shine.

Statistics published by Goldman Sachs this week highlight the potential value in the small number of
Australian companies that take the risky and often unpopular leap offshore.

Firms that earn more than 30 per cent of sales overseas make up 34 per cent of the ASX200
industrials markets index but account for 54 per cent of consensus earnings per share (EPS) growth
for the 2014 financial year. Offshore plays are risky though, which has been highlighted in the lack of
momentum these kind of stocks had last year, and Goldman Sachs notes that 50 per cent of globally
exposed stocks have had downgrades compared to 34 per cent for domestic firms.

But if the dollar keeps falling, companies like James Packer's Crown which is expanding in Macau, Sri
Lanka and the Philippines, global pallet group Brambles, and Macquarie Group should benefit.
Australia Day is a good excuse to assess the nation's business relationship with the region and the
rest of the world. Whether it is Aussies selling flat whites in New York and Hong Kong or R.M.
Williams teaming up with Louis Vuitton, there is still a lot of brand value in Australian products
offshore. But only a handful of local companies have worked out how to capitalise on this.
The nation's dairy industry is a classic example of a missed opportunity as smaller but more
productive countries like New Zealand and Ireland ramp up their milk exports to fuel China's insatiable
demand.
When I recently asked friends in Hong Kong if I could bring anything from Australia on my next visit,
the response was overwhelming: instant baby formula – as many of the massive 900-gram tubs of the
stuff I can physically (or legally) carry into the former British colony.
Though Hong Kong is copping the fallout from a severe shortage of formula in China, a lot of it had to
do with the fact that people in Hong Kong (and I'm talking local Chinese as well as foreign
expatriates) trust Australian brands a lot more than the product on their own shelves. Chinese
residents and tourists in Australia have also reportedly been stripping the shelves of Australian
supermarkets of formula.
This should be translating into a boom in Australian dairy exports to the region. The takeover battle for
Warrnambool Cheese & Butter has highlighted this failure.

More foreign investors like Canada's Saputo and Japan's Kirin are expected to pick off assets one by
one because local investors fail to understand the value in local agriculture assets.

Page210of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Clime Asset Management chief investment officer John Abernethy visited Ireland recently and was
impressed with what he found. Perhaps it was desperation as that country clawed its way out of a
financial black hole, but Ireland's dairy industry has capitalised on Chinese demand.
Abernethy, who first dabbled in dairy while working for NRMA Investments 20 years ago, notes that
China's demand for dairy products from Ireland has risen 20 per cent per annum in recent years.
China will surpass the United Kingdom as that country's biggest exporter in the next decade.New
Zealand makes Australia look bad
New Zealand is also making Australia look bad. About 95 per cent of the 19 billion litres of milk
produced by New Zealand farmers is exported.
This compares to the 9.2 billion litres of milk produced in Australia in 2013, according to Dairy
Australia figures. Forty per cent of that was exported. Tasmania and Victoria dominate production. Milk
production and the percentage exported has fallen since 2001-02 when it peaked at 11.3 billion.

Part of the problem for the entire agriculture sector is that it has struggled to attract the capital needed
from local investors. This was an issue raised in the debate over last year's failed takeover bid for
grains handler GrainCorp by US food groupArcher Daniels Midland.
Abernethy believes the dominance of Coles and Woolworths in the dairy space is contributing to the
problem by driving out the marginal milk players and forcing down the farmgate price of milk.
The argument now surfacing in the industry is that Australia has not destroyed its dairy industry. It has
just sold it off. Co-op Murray Goulburn this week threw in the towel after being outmanoeuvred by
Canada's Saputo for control of Warrnambool.
The outcome means all the bidders walk away with a profit and those millions will be injected back
into the industry. There will be expansion and potentially an uplift in exports but it will be fuelled by
foreign capital.

A lower Australian dollar and the cooling of the mining boom should fuel the appetite for more
Australian firms to look offshore for revenues.

It is certainly hard to argue that corporate Australia is inward-looking. About 25 per cent of chief
executives of Australia's top 100 listed companies were born and raised overseas, according to
numbers crunched by Chanticleer. Many are American, British, Dutch, Scottish, Irish or South African.

But boards and investors remain nervous about offshore acquisitions and expansion.

If the Queensland government had any doubts about its decision to spin off QR National three years
ago they have been put to bed over the last year as cost cuts and solid coal haulage volumes drove
the rail-freight company's share price to fresh highs.

Aurizon, as it is now known, is trading at a record high of $5.02, which is double its $2.55 initial offer
price in late 2010. It took a while for the market to warm to a company riddled with inefficiencies from
years as a public company.

Aurizon is now talked about as a role model by investment bankers spruiking the next wave of
government privatisations. Chief executive Lance Hockridge looks set to follow through on his promise
to bring down the company's efficiency ratio from 91 per cent to 75 per cent by 2015.

Working in his favour was the fact that the market underestimated the excess to be trimmed.
Executives say the level of inefficiency at the time of privatisation was staggering. The company has
also benefited from growing iron ore operations in the past few years as customers started producing.
There is a risk, though, that this growth levels off in financial 2014 as there will be fewer opportunities
to significantly grow volumes.
Analysts have been saying for some time the company is fully priced, but the shares keep inching
higher. The latest share price rally this week came ahead of the some stronger-than-expected
December coal-haulage volumes.

Despite its success, there are still challenges changing the culture at Aurizon as it transforms from an
old-school government entity into a nimble modern player. It has brought in offshore executives such
as Mike Franczak, who joined the company in April after a 25-year career with Canadian Pacific
Railway. Paul Scurrah, who headed the company's commercial and marketing operations, left late last
year to run DP World Australia. The Australian Shareholders Association last year called for chairman
John Prescott to resign.

Page211of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.michael.smith@afr.com.au Twitter @MikeSmithAFR

Tony Boyd is on leave

CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

dorval : Aurizon Mines Ltd | hclamn : Hecla Mining Co
i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i413 : Dairy Products | icnp :
Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2112 : Gold Ore/Silver Ore Mining
| ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
nedc : Commentaries/Opinions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | hkong : Hong Kong | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific |
asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140124ea1p0001z

Page212of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.