Chinese nationals 'illegally' buying luxury Australian real estate are forcing prices up by 30 per cent, leading agent claims

SE
HD

BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Chinese nationals 'illegally' buying luxury Australian real estate are forcing prices up by 30
per cent, leading agent claims
SARAH MICHAEL FOR DAILY MAIL AUSTRALIA
614 words
1 September 2014
13:24
Mail Online
DAMONL
English
© 2014 Associated Newspapers. All rights reserved

* David Morrell says foreigners who do not meet residency requirements are illegally buying premium
property in Australia's most expensive suburbs
* He claims they are being aided by local real estate agents and lawyers

* Chinese investors buying up property in Toorak, Hawthorn and Mosman
Foreign investors are illegally buying premium property in Australia's most expensive suburbs and
are pricing locals out of the market, a leading buyers' agent has claimed.

David Morrell said foreigners who did not meet residency requirements were being aided by local real
estate agents and lawyers to buy large amounts of property in well-heeled areas including Toorak
and Hawthorn in Melbourne's inner-east and Mosman on Sydney's North Shore.
He also claimed the Financial Investment Review Board (FIRB) was doing nothing to stop them, and
that real estate agents and lawyers were turning a blind eye because they were profiting from the
sales.

Mr Morrell, director of buyers' agency Morrell & Koren, said the investors who were predominantly
from mainland China were willing to pay well above market value just to secure property in wealthy
suburbs.
In his submission to a parliamentary inquiry into foreign investment in residential real estate, Mr
Morrell said he had witnessed a recent Toorak auction where the reserve was exceeded by 30
percent.
'There were three Chinese nationals competing, neither spoke English or understood the process
and literally just kept their hands in the air,' he said.

Mr Morrell told Daily Mail Australia: 'It was great for the vendor they got a big free kick but it was
surreal. It was like the auctioneer taking money off the tree it was just silly.

'The frustration I'm hearing from my clients is we're not competing on equal terms.

'If they start getting free kicks like that all the time then the market really gets out of control.'
Mr Morrell said the issue was affecting two segments of the property market in particular – high-end
properties worth more than $10 million and inner-city properties worth between $1.5 million and $3
million.

'It's a domino effect because if someone down street sees a house sell for $12 million when it's only
worth $9 million then someone else with a $9 million house suddenly thinks it's worth $12 million,' he
said.

Page87of186©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.'There are also first home buyers trying to get in the inner city and all these apartments are being
sold to people offshore.

'We're going to be looking at a generation of renters.'
Foreigners must have residency in order to buy property in Australia, but Mr Morrell said the FIRB
relies on estate agents to report any wrongdoing, and Mr Morrell claimed the agents were turning a
blind eye because of the higher commissions they were receiving.

'The big problem is the vendors and agents aren't going to stop it because they want more money,' he
said.

'Lawyers are not going to dob their own clients to the FIRB.'

He said current rules were sufficient but they needed to be enforced properly, and labelled the FIRB a
'toothless tiger'.

'They haven't got the resources to investigate and even if they do it's a slap over the face with a wet
lettuce,' he said.

Mr Morrell said proposals to impose extra stamp duty on foreign buyers would do little to discourage
the investors.

'Some people will just see that as the cost of doing business in Australia,' he said.

Daily Mail Australia has contacted the FIRB for comment.

RE

PUB
AN

austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Associated Newspapers
Document DAMONL0020140905ea9100b2f

Page88of186©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.