TITLE DEEDS Mother and Son to sell family home INSIDE STORY visits Point Piper

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Domain
TITLE DEEDS Mother and Son to sell family home INSIDE STORY visits Point Piper

LUCY MACKEN
1,369 words
23 August 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
6
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

INSIDE STORY

visits Point Piper

Finding suitable digs in this neighbourhood just got that little bit harder given a spate of recent sales,
but there is one option.
Now that $110 million in prime real estate has been cleared from the market in recent months - add it
up: $37 million-plus paid by Peter and Jennifer Wohl, $30 million-plus by fund manager Nick Langley
and wife Lorraine Tarabay for the Scarfs' property, $30 million for the Simon mansion and the $12
million by US hedge fund trader Chris Madison - now would be a good time to relaunch the waterfront
trophy home of Cellarmaster Wines director John Piven-Large.

Cue Brad Pillinger with the keys to the Edwardian-era mansion, and a more realistic guide of more than
$30 million, down from $40 million hopes of 18 months ago.
The sale that kicked off the flurry of high-end deals was the June sale of the late Peter and Ruth Simon
mansion, through Sotheby's Michael Pallier. Now settlement reveals the buyers for bang-on that
amount are Global Renewables chief executive David Singh and his wife Belinda.

No word yet on what the Singhs plan to do with their $4 million Bellevue Hill home given their
substantial trading-up plans.

TITLE DEEDS

Mother and Son to sell family home

Garry McDonald, his wife Diane, and his parents are selling the home they have owned for over 30
years.

Actor Garry McDonald, (pictured, below) and his wife Diane are selling the Bellevue Hill home they
have long shared with McDonald's parents Reuben and Mora McDonald. In a scenario that is a little
reminiscent of his role as Arthur in the long-running TV series Mother and Son, Garry and Diane
bought a half share of the family property when it was converted into a duplex in 1979, paying $85,000
for their downstairs home.
The north-facing, 860-square-metre property with harbour views has been home to parents Reuben
and Mora since they bought it in 1966 for £20,000. Garry and Diane also own a getaway in Berry.

The National Living Treasure and Cranbrook old boy has long been known for his comedic portrayal of
Norman Gunston, but younger readers would know him better from the Offspring series, in which he
plays Dr Phillip Noonan.

Page232of416©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Paul Langsam, of Raine & Horne Double Bay, is taking it to auction on September 11 with expectations
of more than $3.3 million.

- - -

Architect Alex Popov and his wife, designer Alison Hulett, look like they've made a seachange to
Pittwater from their inner-city life, having bought the Avalon Beach weekender of banking executive
Gary Symons and his wife, UniLodge founder Jane Hewitt.
The 1950s weatherboard was listed by C21's Stephanie Hammond in May and sold to the designer
couple for $1,825,000, prompting locals to ask whether there are plans to give it the Popov treatment.
No such plans have been lodged.
The Popov-Hulett purchase follows the sale of their Camperdown penthouse, for $2.8 million earlier
this month, having bought it from the developer in 2009 for $2.6 million.

- - -

Rupert Murdoch's eldest daughter Prue MacLeod and her husband Alasdair have bought the
Woollahra home of mining magnate Nick Curtis and his wife Angela.
The $10.65 million purchase of the Queen Street residence, designed by Espie Dods, is expected to
be the Sydney residence of the MacLeods, although the couple are frequently in residence at the family
farm in Yass, Cavan Station, where Prue is regarded as a well-liked and unpretentious addition to the
district.
The Woollahra property was formerly owned by radio talkback host John Laws before he sold it to
Curtis in 2004 for $7.7 million. It was listed in February and sold by Georgia Cleary, of BradfieldCleary.

- - -

Prima ballerina Darcey Bussell, CBE, and her fund manager husband Angus Forbes took all of nine
days to sell their former Vaucluse home, exchanging for $4.9 million.

A curious instagram mention by stylist Heidi Correa (#goodbyepaddo #hellovaucluse) on her Paddo To
Palmy blog was the first buyer tip-off. But first she and her husband Michael Correa, Westpac's
managing director of global capital markets, have their Luigi Rosselli-designed Paddington home to sell
at auction on Monday for $4.5 million-plus through Ballard's William Manning.
Bussell and Forbes listed the Federation Arts and Crafts property two weeks ago with McGrath's Ben
Collier for $4 million-plus, given they've returned to London where Forbes is establishing his green
investment company Commons Floor and Bussell is a judge on the BBC's Strictly Come Dancing.
Collier declined to confirm rumours of the Correas' purchase.

- - -

Grocon development director Greg Incoll and his wife Nancy, admissions director at Cranbrook, are
downsizing their Balmain home to move to their Walsh Bay penthouse.
The Incolls bought the four-storey property on Beattie Street new in 2006 for $1.5 million. Set behind a
lock-up garage, the four-bedder has open-plan living areas on two levels with city views.

Following the Incolls return from Scotland last September, they bought the $4.12 million Walsh Bay
penthouse in May of Korn Ferry Australiasia managing director Katie Lahey and her husband Robert
Marriott, human resources head at the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ.
The Balmain property goes to auction on September 13 for $1.9 million-plus through McGrath's Mark
Bowis and Kate Lorden.

- - -
Former solicitor Russell Keddie and his royal physiotherapist wife Sarah Key sold their Double Bay
home under the hammer last week for $3.81 million, $300,000 more than expected.

There were four buyers competing for the Federation house - with a Professor Leslie Wilkinson-added
second floor - which eventually sold to a buyer from Castlecrag.

It was listed last month at $3.5 million-plus through Louise Snowden, of Raine & Horne Double Bay.

Page233of416©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Shh!

Guess which Sydney lord mayor (okay, there is only one Clover Moore) got her plans to renovate her
Redfern home to the tune of $230,000 approved in seven weeks - bang on the area's average.

Banker’s Vaucluse move

Westpac senior executive Brian Hartzer looks like he's moving into the Vaucluse mansion designed by
architect Michael Dysart, given settlement records show a $12.75 million purchase of the property in
his wife Georgiana's name.
Word of the Ray Avenue sale was reported by Title Deeds in May for about $13 million despite no
comment from Sotheby's Michael Pallier and Andrew Hennessey, and now rumour has it Brad Pillinger
helped seal the deal. It was sold by ISS Australia chief executive Dane Hudson, who had
commissioned the three-storey residence following his 2003 purchase for $5.25 million.

Morans look to expand

The Moran family are hoping to expand their aged-care facilities in Bellevue Hill, having bought the Lie
family mansion on a double block for $9.05 million. Formerly owned by the late Dr Kioeng Foei Lie, the
1929-square-metre site went to auction on May 31 through Sotheby's Peter Anderson and sold later
that day. Settlement reveals a company purchase, the directors of which are Dr Shane Moran and his
wife Penelope, who own the nursing home across the road in Rose Bay, Beresford Hall. Already,
preliminary discussions with Woollahra Council have taken place for on a proposed aged-care facility.

Long-held mansion listed
In Strathfield, the long-held family mansion of lawyer Dieb Khoury, of Sydney firm Benjamin & Khoury,
has been listed with hopes of setting a new suburb record, eclipsing the $6.8 million set earlier this
year.

The palatial four-storey residence, with some 20 rooms and sitting on a block of 2100 square metres,
has been home to the Khourys and their nine children since it last traded in 1988 for $1.03 million.
Vanguarde's Travis Reeve is pitching to Chinese buyers, hoping to beat the record set in February
when Iris Capital co-founder Ramy Arnaout sold his mansion on the same Llandilo Avenue.

IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

irreal : Residential Real Estate | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ireest
: Real Estate
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New
South Wales
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020140822ea8n0008r

Page234of416©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.