Pulp mill unlikely, says Gunns buyer

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Pulp mill unlikely, says Gunns buyer

Andrew Darby
483 words
30 April 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
35
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Resources

Fund manager New Forests has cast doubt on Gunns' moribund Tamar Valley pulp mill project as it
snaps up the Tasmanian company's timber assets from receivers.

New Forests had bought 98,850 hectares of plantations, 175,600 hectares of freehold land, an
operating woodchip export business and access to two ports in Tasmania, receiver KordaMentha said
on Tuesday.
The sale reportedly brought $330 million, but New Forests would not confirm the price, with the
transaction still to go before a court.
Chief executive David Brand said the purchase would make the investment manager one of
Australia's major forest operators.
He said New Forests was not interested in the pulp mill assets still for sale by KordaMentha - an
operating permit for the $2.3 billion project, and a Tamar Valley site with a 40-hectare platform
cleared and levelled.

"Our clients are looking for us to own and manage plantations on a sustainable basis," Mr Brand said
from San Francisco.

"Operating a $2 billion pulp mill is a completely different kind of business."

Mr Brand said he was "not particularly optimistic" that the Tamar Valley project would ever be built,
given the extended period in which its backers had tried to make it work.

"The fundamentals are against it," he said, pointing to a geographic shift towards pulp and
paper-making in countries including China and Brazil.

The controversial project was first unveiled a decade ago. As recently as January, the Tasmanian
Parliament pushed out to 2017 the permit's requirement for substantial commencement, killing off a
legal challenge by the Tasmanian Conservation Trust.
KordaMentha sought the legislative comfort, and said during the sale process, a number of parties
had expressed interest in the pulp mill site and permit on a stand-alone basis.

"Accordingly the receivers will continue confidential negotiations with those parties as the New
Forests' transaction progresses to completion," Mark Korda and Bryan Webster said.

Tasmanian Resources Minister Paul Harriss said KordaMentha's statement showed the process was
still on foot, but he disclosed that no one had approached the new Liberal government about the pulp
mill project since its election on March 15.

Page86of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Greens leader Christine Milne said the New Forest sale proved the pulp mill permit was valueless.

"It was always toxic, and so now we've got a reality check, which is that the value was only in the
plantation estate."
Gunns continued to export woodchips to China in receivership, and Mr Brand said the company
would seek Forest Stewardship Council certification for future exports.
The Victorian Supreme Court's approval will be sought for the transaction, which involves the sale of
managed investment scheme assets.

Mr Brand said he expected the court would accept that the pricing was fair and reasonable, and the
sale would be completed in June or July.

CO
IN
RE
PUB
AN

gukil : Gunns Ltd
i46 : Wood Products | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020140429ea4u0004p

Page87of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.