Ratings agencies’ image intact despite the history lessons

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Ratings agencies’ image intact despite the history lessons

John Durie
1,430 words
7 June 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
25
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

ON the same day the full Federal Court issued a damning judgment against Standard & Poor’s, China
and Russia signed an agreement to create a joint credit rating agency.

The latter move said it all because Russia is upset S&P has downgraded its country debt just above
junk rating and wants to promote a more “credible” service.

The reality is rating agencies have yet to overcome their conflict of interest in that the company
seeking the rating is the client — the inclination is to back the issuer.

In the Australian case, the issue was worse because the product was outside the rating agency’s
comfort zone, being a complicated derivative product and the client the British office of ABN Amro, so
the issuer was an investment bank at the height of the bull market.

The investment banks were spitting out junk by the bucket load — which is different to a big corporate
like BHP, which is going to be around tomorrow so has its own reputation to protect.

As the GFC underlined, most investment banks didn’t worry too much about more than tomorrow’s
bonus and rating agencies clipped the ticket.
The IMF-backed claim in favour of a group of local councils has demonstrated the bank and the
agencies should be responsible for the $25 million in council losses.

Continued on Page 33 Continued from Page 25 The full court has directed that neither could claim to
share the blame and the accompanying losses and must bear full responsibility — and in doing so has
come to the right conclusion.

This is one of many post-GFC claims against the rating agencies, but remarkably their reputations
have somehow been maintained against the wall of evidence against them.
Corporate ratings attract fees of about $80,000 a year and the company is held to account by the
agency, but when new products are being issued the fees on, say, $500 million product work out at
about 2 to 3 per cent — or about $100,000 against the bank’s $2m fee.

The more products, the more fees and the bank obviously wants the rating agency to give a big tick of
approval.

The Beijing-based Dagong rating agency had actually stepped up efforts to break in the ratings agency
game globally in the wake of the GFC — thinking S&P, Moody’s and Fitch would be tarnished — but so
far it is yet to get the 5 to 10 per cent market share it was gunning for by 2017.

The link with Russia is a step in that direction, but the question is what impact this will have on the
credibility of the rating agency given the obvious motives.

Page90of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.S&P had argued that investors who took the instruments had to bear some responsibility for the
decisions and it had a point, but this line was dismissed by the court because of the way the products
were sold and that the products were wrongly rated.

The fact was the ratings agencies and banks pre-GFC were working together and the rating agencies
allowed their name to be used to sell products that shouldn’t have been sold as such.

Arguably the lessons are now learned, but the reality is the further we move from the GFC — now six
years ago — the more the lessons will be forgotten.

The inherent conflict remains and remarkably the ratings agencies reputations have survived. As
financial gatekeepers, history may not speak well of them but investors have at least been warned.

PC comes up short WHEN the federal government asked the Productivity Commission earlier this year
to take a look at the relative costs of doing business in retail and dairy, it may have been looking for
some smoking guns.

If so, the PC has failed to find them based on yesterday’s interim reports, which for both sectors
concluded that the companies, not government, had the tools for the most effective productive gains.

As a policy exercise, that is not such a bad one for politicians — to realise when government
intervention creates as many problems as it attempts to solve.

The PC did produce some useful numbers and ideas — like reform of the competition laws to get rid of
the nonsense that import replacement or exports was somehow a public benefit as stated in the law
today.

Yes, retail minimum wage rates in Australia are higher than offshore and planning laws restrict
competition in retail but these were known.

Department stores also pay Westfield more for shopping centre rents than they do offshore, at 15.5 per
cent of sales in Australia against 13.2 per cent in New Zealand, 12.7 per cent in the US and 8.8 per
cent in Britain.

Australian supermarkets by contrast compare more than favourably with their US and British
colleagues on the cost curve, a point made recently by outgoing Coles boss Ian McLeod.

The lowest rents were paid by British furniture stores, which tells you online sales in this sector are
much larger than in Australia, and underlines the issue that, yes, there are a tonne of less glamorous
things for governments to fix — like harmonising trading hours and rules — but the real gains are at the
corporate level.
ACCC’s Obeid bind MOSES and Paul Obeid are ironic test cases for big business concerns about
excessive section 155 discovery notices from the ACCC after challenging their issue in the Mount
Penny coal bid-rigging cartel investigation.

The fact the Obeids have challenged the discovery notices confirms the ACCC is still investigating a
matter that has been centre stage at the NSW ICAC corruption hearings.

It also tells you the ACCC must be nearing the end of the matter because the notices in question
demanded the Obeids front an ACCC internal hearing, which normally happens only just before a
decision is being made on a court action.

The timing is crucial because the award of the Mount Penny tenements centred on 2009, which was
when the ACCC’s powers to take criminal cases for cartel breaches first became law.

This suggests if the matter proceeds, it may well be the first criminal cartel case from the ACCC.
It is early days and some in big business will, without knowing the facts, privately be cheering on the
Obeids, because section 155 notices are to some scourges, and their alleged indiscriminate use
wastes time according to others.

King Wood Mallesons’s Stephen Ridgeway said in an interview “few would dispute the need for the
notices; it is just a question on their use which is challenged. The courts have long supported the
ACCC’s powers and the Obeids face a tough time challenging the ACCC”.

Last financial year, the ACCC issued 358 section 155 notices — more than double the 175 issued the
prior year — which either demand documents and other information or in the case of these notices
demand appearances before ACCC investigators.

Page91of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The ACCC is damned if it takes action and damned if it doesn’t; and on this matter, some argue the
issue is well looked after through ICAC so why is the ACCC getting involved. The same people would
damn the ACCC for letting go poential criminal cartel proceedings.

On this issue, without any knowledge of the facts, the ACCC has no choice but to protect its act and to
use whatever powers it has to ensure the right evidence is known before a decision is made to take the
matter to court.

Social bankworking THE National Australia Bank has a 10-man team monitoring social media from its
Melbourne command centre, covering Google, Facebook, LinkedIn, YouTube and Twitter, where NAB
has about 210,000 followers and 7000 mentions a month. Different firms handle social media in their
own way, with NAB operating what some see as the best command centre model. ANZ uses outside
providers that feed into their marketing and media team, the idea being that those folk are best to
follow through on feeds.

Mobile banking at NAB accounted for 3 per cent of internet logins in 2010 and now 50 per cent login on
a mobile device.

There are 1500 servicing interactions each month in which someone will hit Twitter or Facebook
seeking home loan details. NAB aims to hit 50 per cent of these with a bankable transaction.

Image making and maintaining is one part of the dialogue; another is to grab customers in the
ether.s&P faces storm P27

IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

i8395416 : Credit Rating Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i81501 : Credit Types/Services | ifinal :
Financial Services
c173 : Financing Agreements | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | reqrbc : Suggested Reading
Banking/Credit | c17 : Funding/Capital | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E
Industry News Filter | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading
Industry News
austr : Australia | russ : Russia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | eeurz : Central/Eastern Europe | eurz :
Europe | ussrz : CIS Countries
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140606ea670009k

Page92of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.