Mineral Resources in raid on Aquila

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Mineral Resources in raid on Aquila

Amanda Saunders James Thomson
521 words
13 June 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
25
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Mining - $1.4b battle for iron ore project
Mining services and iron ore minnow Mineral Resources has entered the $1.4 billion fight for Aquila
Resources and effectively demanded a role in its West Pilbara Iron Ore Project.

Mineral Resources chief Chris Ellison confirmed on Thursday he had grabbed an almost 13 per cent
stake in an on-market raid.

While the rich-list member said the move was designed to give Mineral Resources access to the
potentially lucrative infrastructure build for the $7.4 billion West Pilbara project, he could also disrupt
the bid for Aquila by Chinese steel giant Baosteel and rail major Aurizon.

Mr Ellison looms as a potential ally for Aquila chairman Tony Poli - who is also the junior's largest
shareholder - in controlling the direction of the fight.

The two multimillionaires are understood to have met in Perth on Wednesday, with Mr Poli formally
welcoming Mr Ellison onto the share register.
Earlier that day, Mineral Resources bought its 12.78 per cent stake in Aquila from London-based fund
manager M&G Investments for about $197 million.

It is understood that Mr Ellison and Mr Poli have been in discussions for at least six months about the
troubled West Pilbara project.

The share raid comes as Aquila's board nears the deadline to respond to Baosteel and Aurizon's joint
$1.4 billion takeover bid. Aquila is expected to lodge its target's statement in the middle of next week.
Mineral Resources, a mining services and processing group, joins two other major shareholders on the
register - Mr Poli, with 28.9 per cent, and co-founder Charles Bass, with about 12 per cent.
The three holdings amount to a blocking stake for the Baosteel-Aurizon bid.
Snaring Aquila would give Aurizon and Baosteel a 50 per cent stake in the stalled West Pilbara project.
Mineral Resources says it has a plan to build and operate the $6 billion infrastructure underpinning
that project. It said it had already "invested considerable time developing a business case to deliver a
fit-for-purpose solution" for the project, including a "total mine to port development plan".

Credit Suisse analyst Paul McTaggart said the move was risky and could be a white knight play.

Mineral Resources paid $3.75 a share for the Aquila share parcel, a notable premium on Baosteel and
Aquila's all-cash unsolicited offer of $3.40 a share.

Page61of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.But it was a risky strategy that would be costly if Baosteel and Aurizon were to walk away, Mr
McTaggart said.

"Are Baosteel and Aurizon willing to pay substantially more? Maybe they'll play hardball. They could
walk away and make Aquila sweat on it," he said.

The chances of a counter-bid are low, given that Baosteel already owns 19.8 per cent of Aquila's
register.
Aurizon and Baosteel are planning to split the $7.4 billion West Pilbara project into separate mine and
infrastructure vehicles. Aurizon would take a majority stake in the infrastructure vehicle, worth about $6
billion.

CO
IN

RE
PUB
AN

aqures : Aquila Resources Ltd. | dorval : Aurizon Mines Ltd | hclamn : Hecla Mining Co
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | igoldm : Gold
Ore Mining
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020140612ea6d0004a

Page62of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.