Forrest seeks input on farming infrastructure spend

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Forrest seeks input on farming infrastructure spend

Agribusiness Julie-anne Sprague
533 words
17 November 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
8
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Mining billionaireAndrew Forrest wants his group of high-powered Chinese and Australian
agricultural and food businesses to help determine infrastructure spending approvals in the sector by
Infrastructure Australia.

As part of a Memorandum of Understanding struck at the weekend, Mr Forrest's Australia-Sino
100-Year Agricultural and Food Safety Partnership, also known as ASA 100, has agreed to "building
a relationship with Infrastructure Australia" and will request agricultural investment approvals are
brought "within its remit".

It is understood that the ASA 100 group does not want to control decision making, but wants to
encourage and facilitate investment, including the potential to arrange co-investments for big ticket
infrastructure that governments could consider for public private partnerships or seek directly from
the private sector.

Many farmers complain about deteriorating infrastructure across the country that is driving up supply
chain costs and making it more difficult to compete in export markets.

The MOU, which includes a string of commitments to co-operate to promote and invest in Australian
agriculture, will be formally signed on Monday in front of Chinese President Xi Jinping and Prime
Minister Tony Abbott ahead of the signing of a Free Trade Agreement between the two countries.
The MOU includes creating a single brand for Australian food sold to China, a strategy Mr Forrest
believes is essential to increasing demand for the nation's produce that can in turn stimulate
production and farm returns.Big food supply opportunity

"We rode on the agricultural sheep's back and I am very much of the view that if we market Australia
correctly we will do so again," Mr Forrest said.
Mr Forrest has been struck by the lack of Australian food in China's large supermarkets. He wants
Australian producers to join together to market itself, rather than separate states and industries
competing against one another in China.
"New Zealand dairy has stolen the march," Mr Forrest said. "They have done a great job. They [the
Chinese consumers] know New Zealand. They are soon going to get to know Australia."
Harold Mitchell, who is a member of the ASA 100, is leading the development of an umbrella brand
for Australian produce. Members of the ASA, co-chaired by Mr Forrest, include some of Australia's
biggest agricultural producers and processors including Baiada Poultry, Murray Goulburn
Co-operative, CBH Group, Teys Australia and Casella Wines.
Chinese interests are represented by some of China's biggest agribusinesses and food groups
including New Hope Group, one of China's largest suppliers of meat, egg and dairy products.

Page75of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.In attendance for the first meeting of Chinese and Australian members of the ASA 100 in Canberra at
the weekend were about 20 members from China including Agricultural Bank of China president Yun
Zhang and New Hope chairman Yonghao Liu, who co-chairs ASA 100 alongside Mr Forrest and
Business Council of Australia chief executive Jennifer Westacott.

Mr Forrest bought Western Australia's largest beef processor Harvey Beef earlier this year.

He said attracting younger generations to the sector required boosting returns that could come
through ASA 100's initiatives to stimulate demand from Chinese customers.

IN
NS
RE

PUB
AN

i0 : Agriculture
cpartn : Partnerships/Collaborations | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141116eabh0002f

Page76of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.