Goodman to recycle $1.4 billion in assets

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Goodman to recycle $1.4 billion in assets

Robert Harley
686 words
13 June 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
34
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Australia's leading logistics property operation, Goodman Group, will sell around $1.4 billion worth
of assets both locally and globally in the next year.

The move is a response to strengthening investor demand for well-leased assets, as well as the
surge in urban renewal in Australia and Britain.

The capital released will be recycled into a development pipeline which is expected to top $3 billon
in 2015.

Goodman chief executive Greg Goodman said the investment cycle was very strong, with a lot of
capital chasing assets.

So is this the peak of the market?

"No, not at all," Mr Goodman said. "We think there is a lot of opportunity in this market, but there is
also a lot of sense in taking money off the table. We can make this a self-sustaining business
without the need for new equity."
Goodman Group manages $26.4 billion in property assets. With increasing values and $3 billion
worth of development projects to be completed next year, the sale of $1.4 billion in assets will have
a relatively minor impact.

Mr Goodman spoke to The Australian Financial Review after an investors' and analysts' update
which included presentations from Goodman executives from around the globe.Outlook for 2015
positive
On Wednesday evening, the group announced that it would deliver a 7 per cent increase in
operating earnings for the current financial year, better than the previously forecast 6 per cent
growth.

Mr Goodman said a regular 6 per cent increase in operating earnings was sustainable over the
long term. "But we will outperform from time to time," he added. Guidance for the 2015 year will be
given at the company's annual results in August.

Mr Goodman said that 2015 was shaping up to be another good year.

Morgan Stanley analyst Lou Pirenc noted Goodman's strong price performance since March.

"With industrial fundamentals strong, cap rate compression evident and a real opportunity to drive
high returns from residential conversions, the stock should continue to outperform from here," he
wrote.

Mr Goodman told analysts that the outlook was strong and within long-term aspirations.

Page72of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.He said other themes for the coming year would be increased development work, driven by activity
in the United States and Brazil, a renewed focus on product quality and service to customers, and
urban renewal.

Mr Goodman said that urban renewal, as well as releasing capital and contributing to development
return, provided an ongoing opportunity to move existing clients into new premises.Local rents to
grow at pace of inflation

Goodman's general manager in Australia, Jason Little, noted that prime net face rents in his market
would grow at the pace of inflation, or around 2 per cent to 3 per cent a year.
However, in South Sydney, where the supply of industrial property was shrinking as warehouses
gave way to apartments, rents would rise faster.

Mr Little also noted a focus on aligning Goodman's operations with government spending on
infrastructure.

And he stressed the yield compression for industrial properties driven by capital looking for
high-yielding assets, the spread to bond rates and a long term re-rating of the industrial sector.

The chief executive of Goodman's North American operations, Brandon Birtcher, said yields had
tightened by 25 basis points in 2013.

And Goodman's managing director of UK logistics, Charles Crossland, said yields in the keenly
sought south-east of the country, at 5.25 per cent for offices and 5.75 per cent for logistics, were
almost as low as at the peak of boom in 2006/07.

For Goodman, only Brazil is moving out of cycle, with prime yields rising 75-150 basis points and
rents falling.
One of Goodman's flagships, the ATL Centre in Hong Kong, has risen in value over the past year
from $US450 million ($470 million) to $US585 million, largely due to rental growth.
Goodman's managing director in greater China, Phil Pearce, said the group would like to own
more of the facility, but its partners were not selling.

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

magmgp : Goodman Group
ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles |
i8150206 : Investment Trusts/Funds | i815020602 : Real Estate Investment Trusts | ifinal :
Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140612ea6d0001a

Page73of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.