Single bidder snaps up land at Campbell for $64m

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Single bidder snaps up land at Campbell for $64m

By Meredith Clisby Domain Editor
594 words
12 June 2014
Canberra Times
CANBTZ
A001
English
(c) 2014 The Canberra Times

By Meredith Clisby Domain Editor

Single bidder snaps up land at Campbell for $64m

Blocks of land in the new urban infill precinct of Campbell have sold for almost $64million at auction - to
a single developer. The Land Development Agency released five blocks to the market for a combined
total of 528 dwellings on 21,473 square metres. All five blocks sold on Wednesday to local consortium
SHL Development, which includes Canberra property developer Terry Shaw, who is the group's
spokesman. There were 29 registered bidders for blocks in the Campbell Section 5 project, on the corner
of Constitution Avenue and Anzac Parade. The largest block, which could be
developed into 205 dwelling sites, sold under the hammer for $15million. A 2095-square-metre block for
50 dwellings sold for $9.75 million, and a slightly larger block for 60 dwellings sold for $11 million. The
two sites set under the master plan as a possible hotel or serviced apartments sold for $13.5 million and
$14.5 million. The ACT government will net $63.75 million from the sale. The Campbell blocks had been
expected to go for more than $40 million. The LDA has sold more than $200million worth of land in just
over a week following strong results in Moncrieff and Lawson. Mr Shaw said the newly formed
consortium had been put together to acquire development sites in
Canberra, and the Campbell blocks aligned with its objectives. "This site ticks all the boxes for the group
in the sense that it's a prestigious location so there's an opportunity to do something really special that
says a lot about the company," MrShaw said. "The LDA and NCA have already done extensive planning
and consultation on this site and the criteria are fairly well defined. We're excited by the opportunity to be
able to deliver on their vision and add our ideas to that as well." Mr Shaw said it was the group's
intention to deliver hotels or serviced apartments on the two sites designated for that use. He said the
consortium consisted of himself and a couple of others who
had extensive experience in development and business in China. He said the other members were
long-term residents who had a strong relationship with Canberra. CBRE ACT managing director Andrew
Stewart said there had been strong interest from local, interstate and international investors and the
bidding was competitive. "What it goes to show is the strength of a premium offering," he said. Joint
agent Mark Terracini from Raine and Horne Commercial said the site offered a once-in-a-lifetime
opportunity for developers, with the land overlooking the lake, city and soon-to-be-developed park. He
said the successful consortium had been confident it was going to buy all of the sites.
Raine and Horne Commercial managing director Frank Morella said while he was surprised by the
higher-than-expected numbers, it showed confidence in Canberra's market. LDA executive director of
land development Chris Reynolds said the agency knew it was going to be a very competitive auction
because of the strong interest beforehand. But he said the prices had gone well above reserves set by
independent valuers. "It really comes down to that site - it's a premium location," Mr Reynolds said. He
said that while guidelines for each block would ensure consistency of the finished precinct, it was good
that a single developer had secured all the sites.

RF

57471787

Page170of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.npag : Page-One Stories | ncat : Content Types
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

NS
RE
PUB Federal Capital Press of Australia Pty Ltd
AN

Document CANBTZ0020140611ea6c0000p

Page171of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.