CDL to step up the pace as it expands overseas

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Money
CDL to step up the pace as it expands overseas

Melissa Tan
609 words
15 August 2014
Straits Times
STIMES
English
(c) 2014 Singapore Press Holdings Limited

Developer eyeing markets such as Japan, Australia
PROPERTY developers in Singapore continue to head overseas and City Developments (CDL) is
no exception.

Executive chairman Kwek Leng Beng said yesterday that CDL will speed up its expansion abroad
and is on the lookout in countries such as Japan and Australia.
It might then move into fund management and spin off more hotels into a real estate investment
trust (Reit), he said at a second-quarter results briefing.

"First, we develop properties overseas; fund management will come later," he said.

"One day, if it is prudent and viable, why not throw all our hotels into a Reit? Make it the biggest
Reit ever in Singapore," he added.

"As another example, why don't we get all the provincial hotels in the United States and Britain,
and put them in a Reit? That would be another model for fund management."
For the three months to June, the company saw net profit drop 32.8 per cent from levels in the
previous year to $137.9 million.
Previously, it had enjoyed one-off gains from the sale of an industrial property at Pasir Panjang
Road, CDL said.

With the one-time gains stripped out, "core" net profit would have registered an increase of 89.7
per cent for the period, the company said. Revenue rose 5.9 per cent to $861.1 million for the
second quarter.
Most of CDL's profits came from property development, followed by hotels. It owns 60 per cent of
hotel chain Millennium & Copthorne Hotels.
Chief executive Grant Kelley said yesterday that CDL would focus on growing its property
business overseas, particularly in Britain, China, Japan and Australia.
In China, it is developing a project called Hong Leong City Centre in Suzhou, he said. It also has
two projects in Chongqing - Eling Residences, a 126-unit, high-end residential project, and Huang
Huayuan, a mixed-use development.
As for Japan, the Millennium Mitsui Garden Hotel Tokyo in the upscale Ginza district is expected
to open in December.

Mr Kwek said yesterday that "the world is short of hotels", and that hotels are more profitable than
serviced apartments, even though serviced apartments might require less manpower.

Page71of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.He added that CDL would like to convert some of its luxury residential developments in Singapore
into serviced apartments, but suggested that the proposal had encountered roadblocks.

"In the old days, it was very easy to convert apartments into serviced apartments, but currently, it's
not so easy... we're talking to the Government."

CDL said yesterday that it plans to launch the high-end New Futura condominium at Leonie Hill
Road by the end of this year.

The office component of its South Beach integrated development near City Hall is expected to be
completed by the year end as well. So far, about 20 per cent of the office space has secured
committed leases.
The group's earnings per share for the second quarter stood at 14.5 cents, down from a restated
21.8 cents the previous year. Net asset value per share rose from $8.50 as at Dec 31 last year to
$8.67 as at June 30 this year.

CDL shares fell 27 cents, or 2.7 per cent, to $9.78 yesterday.

melissat@sph.com.sg

ART

IN

RE

PUB
AN

Artist's impressions of Hong Leong City Centre (above) in Suzhou and Eling Residences in
Chongqing - two of the projects being developed by CDL in China. The Chinese market is among
the company's top priorities in its drive to grow its presence overseas. -- PHOTO: CDL
i815020602 : Real Estate Investment Trusts | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150206
: Investment Trusts/Funds | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv :
Investing/Securities | ireest : Real Estate
austr : Australia | jap : Japan | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
easiaz : Eastern Asia
Singapore Press Holdings Limited
Document STIMES0020140814ea8f00011

Page72of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.