ADM Expands Presence in Asia-Pacific to Serve Growing Market

ADM Expands Presence in Asia-Pacific to Serve Growing Market

HD
WC 1,179 words
PD
13 June 2014
SN
ENP Newswire
SC
ENPNEW
LA
English
CY
(c) 2014, Electronic News Publishing. All Rights Reserved.
LP

Release date - 12062014
DECATUR, Ill. - Archer Daniels Midland Company (NYSE: ADM) today announced actions to align its
investments and organization to better serve growing demand for its products across Asia-Pacific.

TD

‘As populations and incomes across Asia continue to rise, diets are evolving. With that shift comes an
increase in demand for crops and other products from agriculture. For decades, ADM has connected the
world’s harvest with the Asian market,’ said ADM Chairman and CEO Patricia Woertz. ‘Now, we’re taking
a series of actions to enhance our ability to efficiently serve that growing demand.

‘As we previously announced, we’re investing to grow our food and feed production with the addition of
two production facilities in China. We’re also making enhancements to our ports and logistics
coordination throughout the Asia-Pacific region, and we’re adding and aligning talent to support growth.
Together, these actions will strengthen our ability to serve our customers in the region and improve
coordination between our operations within Asia and around the globe.’
Investing to Grow Asian Operations
Last month, ADM announced that the company is building a sweetener and soluble-fiber manufacturing
complex at the port of Tianjin in North China to help meet growing demand in China and Asia for
high-quality food ingredients that can serve a wide variety of needs. The sweetener facility is expected to
be fully operational in early 2015, with the soluble fiber facility operational in the second half of 2015.
ADM announced last fall that the company is constructing a facility in Nanjing to produce animal feed
premix that can be added to animal rations to promote good health and optimal growth. Such premix
formulas typically contain vitamins and minerals, amino acids such as lysine and threonine, and other
ingredients. The facility is scheduled to begin operations in mid-2015 and will complement ADM’s
existing feed premix plants in Dalian and Tianjin.
Through its acquisition of the remaining stake in Toepfer, ADM will strengthen its merchandising
operations in Asia-Pacific. The combined ADM and Toepfer team in the region merchandises more than
$14 billion in commodities annually.

As part of the companywide effort to grow sales of higher-value products, ADM is adding specialty
ingredients sales offices in Indonesia, Philippines, Thailand, Korea and Vietnam. The company already
has specialty ingredients sales teams in Singapore, Australia, Japan and China.

Aligning the Organization to Support Growth

ADM will centralize coordination of its activities throughout Asia-Pacific by moving its regional
headquarters from Shanghai to Singapore, which is the hub of the company’s regional merchandising
operations. Ismael Roig, president, ADM Asia-Pacific, will have offices in both Singapore and Shanghai.
ADM will hire a new president of ADM China. The position will report to Roig, be based in Shanghai, and
focus on growing ADM’s sweetener portfolio and feed business in China.

Collin Benson has been named president, ADM Australia and New Zealand. He replaces Bill Fitzgibbon,
who is retiring as operations director of ADM’s Sydney office after 16 years of service growing ADM’s
food and feed ingredients business. Benson will be based in Sydney and will continue to oversee ADM’s

Page48of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.business in Japan and Korea. He brings 19 years of experience in grain merchandising and in food- and
feed-ingredient sales. For the last six years, he served as president of ADM Japan. He will work to grow
ADM’s operations in Australia and New Zealand.
Benson will lead the integration of the Adelaide-based Toepfer business-among Australia’s top five
agricultural commodity exporters-with ADM’s Sydney-based food and feed ingredients business. Benson
will report to Roig.

As part of an effort to strengthen ADM’s ports, merchandising and logistics across the region, Nigel Hart
will join ADM as director, Asia-Pacific Ports and Storage Development. Hart brings 15 years of experience
in corporate development and grain logistics, storage and merchandising, most recently with GrainCorp
Limited. Based in Sydney, he will support the growth of ADM’s port, logistics and storage capabilities
throughout Asia-Pacific. Hart will report to Roig.
Tim Henry, general manager, Toepfer Australia, will lead ADM’s Australian grain merchandising
operations as they become part of ADM’s global Agricultural Services business. Henry has led the
Australian Toepfer business since 2011, having joined Toepfer in Singapore in 2008. He has more than
15 years’ experience in grain merchandising.
To support growth across the company’s various businesses, ADM has appointed Kristina Hermanson
director, Business Development for Southeast Asia. Hermanson has been with ADM since 2007 and
brings to the role more than 10 years of commercial, business-development, project-management and
integration experience. Hermanson will report to Roig.

ADM in Asia-Pacific

ADM is one of the top exporters of agricultural commodities to Asia-Pacific and markets an extensive
range of food ingredients and animal feeds and feed premixes through its network of sales offices located
throughout the region. ADM also holds a 16.8 percent stake in Asian agribusiness Wilmar International
Limited and a 19.85 percent stake in Australian agribusiness GrainCorp Limited.
ADM in China
Since its entrance into the Chinese market in 1994, ADM has grown to become a significant supplier of
China’s rising demand for corn, oilseeds and food and feed ingredients. Today, ADM employs more than
300 people in China.

In 1995, ADM began operating an animal-feed premix plant in Dalian. It has since added another
feed-premix plant in Tianjin and is constructing a third in Nanjing. In 2005, ADM opened a commercial
office in Shanghai to serve the Chinese market for specialty food ingredients such as lecithin, xanthan
gum, acidulants, vitamin E and cocoa products. ADM is currently building a sweetener and soluble-fiber
manufacturing complex at the port of Tianjin. The complex is ADM’s first wholly owned food-ingredient
production facility in China.

ADM in Australia

In Australia, ADM serves the markets for specialty-food and -feed ingredients as well as industrial
products. ADM is a leading provider of amino acids for feed applications and of cocoa and lecithin for food
products. ADM’s Toepfer business markets wheat, barley and canola across Australia. The company is
among Australia’s top five domestic grain merchandisers and among the top five agricultural commodity
exporters.

About ADM
For more than a century, the people of Archer Daniels Midland Company (NYSE: ADM) have
transformed crops into products that serve vital needs. Today, 31,000 ADM employees around the globe
convert oilseeds, corn, wheat and cocoa into products for food, animal feed, industrial and energy uses.
With more than 270 processing plants, 470 crop procurement facilities, and the world’s premier crop
transportation network, ADM helps connect the harvest to the home in more than 140 countries.

For more information about ADM and its products, visit www.adm.com

Media Contact:

Jackie Anderson Tel: +1-217-424-5413 Email: media@adm.com

[Editorial queries for this story should be sent to newswire@enpublishing.co.uk]

Page49of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CO
IN

NS
RE

arch : Archer Daniels Midland Company
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i416 : Flour/Malt Products | icnp : Consumer Goods | ifood : Food
Products
npress : Press Releases | ncat : Content Types
china : China | austr : Australia | dalian : Dalian | sydney : Sydney | tianji : Tianjin | apacz : Asia Pacific |
asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | liaon : Liaoning |
nswals : New South Wales

PUB Electronic News Publishing Ltd.
AN

Document ENPNEW0020140613ea6d000bb

Page50of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.