(CM) Britannia's alliance with S.African partner - buyers for Malaysian stockpiles

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

(CM) Britannia's alliance with S.African partner - buyers for Malaysian stockpiles

361 words
8 August 2014
Ralph Wragg Australian Business News
AAPRAW
English
Copyright 2014 RWE AUSTRALIAN BUSINESS NEWS PTY LTD. All Rights Reserved.

Sydney - Thursday - August 07 (RWE) - Britannia Mining, Inc [OTC Pink: BMIN] [PINKSHEETS: BMIN],
a UK based mining development company, announced today, that Britannia has strategically aligned
with South African facilitation partners; securing Swiss buyers for its Malaysian "ready mined"
stockpiles.
"We have secured distinct buyers for our supply of Malaysian iron ore," stated Kenneth Roberts, CEO
of Britannia Mining.

"Together with our partners, we have successfully facilitated a commitment from a Swiss buying group
with whom Britannia has made significant progress in closing out the initial transaction.
The parties have been working diligently to thrash out elements of the multi-million dollar trading
contract.

Discussions have included hammering out price, quality control, payment structures, shipping logistics
and export protocols with port authorities.

Management indicated that the Swiss organization is part of a trading group focussed on providing a
complete range of services to the steel and raw materials industries.
As a procurer of iron ore for end manufacturers, the group has a network of offices that spans Hong
Kong, South America, and France.

Mr Roberts concluded, "Completing this trade will be a substantial win for Britannia.
Not only because it solidifies the revenue stream stemming from our iron ore stockpiles, but because it
establishes a viable framework for ongoing and future trades.
This will reduce the commercial lead time for subsequent shipments and expedite transactions expected
to close with our other buyers.
About Britannia Mining: Britannia Mining is a natural resources development company that is focused
on acquiring high quality mineral, mining and other commodity-based projects.
The company is committed to developing revenues by conducting exploration, evaluation and trading
activities.
The company's mission is to secure commodities by developing immediate and near term product
pipelines for iron ore and other natural resources.
Acquisition Focus The company is targeting revenue producing assets and is currently in negotiations
regarding joint venture, acquisitions and trading mineral stockpiles.
Exploration Focus The company has been developing a high grade iron ore project in Malawi and is
currently renewing the Exclusive Prospecting License for iron ore over 650 sq.km at Nthale Blantyre.

CO

micenv : Britannia Mining Inc.

Page153of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
c184 : Joint Ventures | cpartn : Partnerships/Collaborations | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c18 : Ownership
Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | malay : Malaysia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
RWE Australian Business News Pty Ltd
Document AAPRAW0020140808ea8800006

Page154of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.