Chinese syndicate pay top dollar for boutique hotel

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

CommercialProperty
Chinese syndicate pay top dollar for boutique hotel

CHRIS HERDE
309 words
12 September 2014
Courier Mail
COUMAI
CourierMail
75
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

A KANGAROO Point boutique hotel has bounced into rarefied territory with a Chinese investment
syndicate paying what is believed to be record price per room for the property.
The syndicate paid $13.5 million for Il Mondo Boutique Hotel on Rotherham St after an expressions
of interest campaign by JLL Hotels & Hospitality Group’s Paul Fraser and Peter Harper.

Mr Fraser said they received about 100 inquires from a range of owner-operators, passive investors
and developers, both locally and internationally.

“The asset’s underlying fundamentals being: a quality product in a core location with an established
trading history resulted in the sale process being hotly contested,” he said.

“We received significant interest from a range of owner-operators, passive investors and developers.
Notably, many of these groups were new entrants to the Brisbane market or hotel sector in general.”
Mr Fraser said the sale represented a price per key of $337,500 – far surpassing other CBD fringe
and metropolitan hotel sales that had taken place in Brisbane in recent years.
He said the transaction could be considered a fresh benchmark for Brisbane’s hotel property
market.
Developed by family company GBW Developments in the 1990s, the award-winning property offers
40 keys comprising hotel rooms and apartments, a restaurant, swimming pool and undercover
parking.
It occupies a prominent 1580sq m freehold site and zoning provisions allow a residential
redevelopment upside.

Mr Harper said the result was not surprising given the investment activity in mid-scale hotels across
Australia.

“It’s exciting to see how this sector of the market has now become a major interest of offshore
buyers,” he said.“Previously, foreign capital only focused on $20 million plus assets in the capital
cities. Now we’re being inundated by foreign investors, primarily from mainland China, “

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | queensl : Queensland
News Ltd.
Document COUMAI0020140911ea9c0002t

Page185of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.