Milk in the belly bound for Chinese kitchens

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Aviation
Milk in the belly bound for Chinese kitchens

STEVE CREEDY AVIATION WRITER
771 words
5 December 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
29
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Innovative tracking technology will keep copycats at bay
QANTAS Freight and partner Peloris Global Sourcing have combined to milk a unique opportunity in
China they believe will improve with the introduction of the free-trade agreement with Australia.

The partners worked for two years to develop a streamlined way of getting fresh milk into China quickly
enough to give it a shelf life that would allow it to be sold in supermarkets.
They developed special packaging and handling procedures for transporting fresh milk that would meet
the requirements of Chinese authorities. The partnership exported 50,000 litres in the first quarter
starting June and increased that to 110,000 litres in the second quarter and is expecting to double the
volume each quarter for some time.
“The reason it’s possible is that we’ve managed to present a solution to the Chinese authorities that
meets their testing and health and safety regulations … which has meant they’ve changed their
processes to allow the milk to be cleared in a week,’’ said Peloris managing director Peter Verry.
“Previously it was three weeks and, of course, the shelf life of fresh milk is about 14 to 20 days.’’ The
international export consulting company’s cold chain pipeline solution includes quality assurance and
handling controls to meet or exceed China’s food health and safety standards.

The product is maintained at an optimal temperature at all times during transit and uses an innovative
product security system that identifies and tracks individual units from the farm to consumer.
There is a strong desire for Western premium food in China which, along with a mistrust of local
production processes, has led experts to predict a potential market for fresh milk of 10-20 million litres
a year. “But it could go beyond that,’’ Mr Verry said. “It will take time because with a new product in
China, there’s got to be an awareness of it. There’s a huge amount of UHT milk sold into China from
overseas so there has to be some education of the public to understand the difference between UHT
milk and fresh milk. So that’s happening, but 20 million litres a year would not be an exaggeration at
this point.’’ There now four producers qualified to ship fresh milk to China. Qantas has already
transported 30 bulk shipments this year, totalling 220,000 litres and Qantas Freight executive general
manager Alison Webster said the airline had the capability to be at the front line of demand growth for
fresh milk.
“We’ve got both belly space on our daily Sydney-Shanghai services that’s being used to carry this milk,’’
she said. “But we’ve also got our 747-400 dedicated freighters which do a Sydney-Shanghai leg four
times a week out of Australia.

“And it absolutely needs to be air freighted because that’s the fastest and most viable way we can get in
there because of that short shelf life.’’ The milk sells for $8-$10 a bottle, giving locals ample motive to
print fake labels and making necessary the scanning system, which is accepted by the WTO, the OECD
and Chinese authorities. The milk is flown in to Shanghai but Peloris takes it overland to Beijing and
clears it to get it on supermarket shelves in the capital the same time it hits the shelves in Shanghai.

Page125of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Qantas helps with its own local expertise. “We have a dedicated freight manager based up in Shanghai
and he makes sure the operation runs absolutely smoothly and he’s very well connected in the local
market,’’ Ms Webster said.
The companies expect the trade pact in China will boost commerce with Australia and produce
opportunities beyond milk.
“Milk’s the beginning of other Australian produce that is going to be much marketable in China,’’ Ms
Webster said. “With the signing of the free-trade agreement, the dairy tariffs will be phased out over the
next four years. I think is going to grow quite quickly.’’ Ms Webster said the airline wanted to partner with
more Australian producers and manufacturers to get other Australian produce to China.
Mr Verry said Peloris was working to get chilled beef and seafood into China. However, he cautioned
that the free-trade agreement would not make it easier to get products into China. “Actually, it doesn’t
make it easier, but it does make it more affordable,’’ he said.“They don’t magically waive the regulations
just because of the free trade agreement, it’s more about the tariffs.’’

CO
IN
NS
RE

PUB
AN

qntas : Qantas Airways Ltd
i75 : Airlines | i7501 : Scheduled Passenger Airlines | iairtr : Air Transport | itsp : Transportation/Shipping
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141204eac500043

Page126of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.