China Molybdenum Considers Further Expansion; Mining Company Seeks to Increase Life of Australian Copper , Gold Mine Northparkes

SE
HD

BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
ED
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
China Molybdenum Considers Further Expansion; Mining Company Seeks to Increase Life of
Australian Copper, Gold Mine Northparkes
By Rhiannon Hoyle
494 words
2 October 2014
13:12
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

China Molybdenum Co. is seeking to increase the life of its recently acquired Australian
copper-and-gold mine, Northparkes, and is considering the acquisition of further foreign mining
operations, the head of its Australian mining operation said Thursday.
Northparkes managing director Stefanie Loader described China Molybdenum as "an ambitious and
growing international resources company," signaling continued interest from Chinese investors in
overseas resources despite a recent shopping spree having yielded numerous bad investments for
some companies.

She said the company was pushing to extend the expected life of Northparkes, one of Australia's
largest copper mines, beyond its existing 2032 end date, with drilling work under way on land
surrounding the mine.

"We are also seeking to acquire and invest in producing and cash-generating resources projects in
politically stable countries," Ms. Loader said at a business event in Sydney. She didn't elaborate
further.
China has snapped up foreign resources in recent years amid a rapid expansion in its economy,
helping to feed its factories and ensure it wasn't reliant on Western powers for raw materials. China's
overseas investments in resources climbed to $53.3 billion last year, from $8.2 billion in 2005,
according to an investment database compiled by the American Enterprise Institute and the Heritage
Foundation.
While many major deals, particularly in iron ore, have struggled with high costs or less output than
expected, Ms. Loader said the Northparkes project was helping bolster the bottom line of its Chinese
owner, particularly after slashing operating costs 20% last year, bolstering margins. It recently reported
a 66% increase in first-half profit.
China Molybdenum bought an 80% stake in the Northparkes operation from Rio Tinto PLC last year
for $820 million. Rio Tinto, which had acquired Northparkes in 2000, sold the mine as part of its
strategy to shed unwanted assets to pay down debt and protect its credit rating.

Japan's Sumitomo Group owns the remaining 20% interest.
China is the world's biggest buyer of copper, used in wires and pipes for industries from electronics to
construction. It accounts for about 40% of global demand.
Ms. Loader declined to speculate on the outlook for copper prices. The commodity dropped to a
three-month low earlier this week as weaker economic data from China fanned investor concerns the
world's No. 2 economy could slow further.

"Commodity prices and exchange rates—they matter a lot to us, but we can't control them," she said.

Page287of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Northparkes, in Australia's New South Wales state, produces about 55,000 tons of copper a year.
Still, mining executives and analysts are widely upbeat on the longer run outlook for copper, as
China's economy rebalances from steel-intensive industrialization toward consumer-led growth, which
tends to demand high levels of copper for production of items such as computers and home
appliances.

craaus : Rio Tinto Ltd | rtz : Rio Tinto PLC | chmoly : China Molybdenum Co Ltd
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | igoldm : Gold Ore Mining | i2114 : Copper Ore/Nickel Ore Mining | i22 :
Primary Metals | imet : Mining/Quarrying | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources
cacqu : Acquisitions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c18 : Ownership
Changes | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types |
nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Asian Business News
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document WSJO000020141002eaa2002be

CO
IN

NS

RE

IPD
PUB
AN

Page288of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.