DATAROOM

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
DATAROOM

1,148 words
5 December 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
20
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

ANZ backs Chinese bid for John Holland AUSTRALIA’S ANZ Bank has thrown its weight behind a $1
billion bid by China Communications Construction Company for Leighton Holdings contractor John
Holland.

According to sources, the Australian bank is part of a lending syndicate that also includes investment
bank Morgan Stanley and Bank of China.

The news follows a 6.7 per cent leap in the Leighton Holdings share price yesterday to $21.18 after its
subsidiary, John Holland, unveiled a $150 million-plus contract to expand an agricultural project in
South Australia.

However, others are questioning whether the jump is connected to excitement around an imminent
deal. Sources said an announcement could be made next week with CCCC relying on a $US1bn
($1.2bn) bridging loan to fund its acquisition.
The Chinese company was first revealed as a suitor for John Holland by The Australian in
September and the group has been competing with Samsung, which is believed to have recently left
the contest.

Yet a bid by CCCC may stir up controversy and could raise concerns with the Foreign Investment
Review Board, given corruption allegations by the World Bank, which has banned the company from
working on its projects until 2017. But then Leighton’s business practices have also attracted scrutiny
and it remains under investigation by the Australian Securities and Exchange Commission over
alleged bribes in Iraq.

John Holland has numerous contracts with government departments, including Defence.
Balancing these qualms is the freshly-inked free trade deal between China and Australia, which has
made the purchase of an Australian construction company more attractive for the Chinese group,
as the agreement allows for Chinese workers to be brought into Australia on build projects.
Leighton placed various parts of its business up for sale earlier this year after its Spanish-controlled
parent, German construction groupHochtief, launched a proportional takeover bid for the company.

Morgan Stanley is working with CCCC, while Macquarie Capital is adviser for Leighton. John Holland
is said to be the most valuable asset on offer.

Investa? Certainly DEATH and taxes are two of life's certainties.
In Australia's real estate circles you can add a third: the sale of Investa Property Group.
The fate of the Morgan Stanley-backed commercial property landlord, which manages a
multi-billion-dollar portfolio that includes the listed vehicle Investa Office Fund, as well as the unlisted
blue-chip office landlord ICPF, is a perennial target of speculation.
So when another spasm shoots through the market about a looming sale, scepticism is inevitable.

Page127of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Nonetheless, senior property circles are once again abuzz with speculation about a looming sales
process.
This latest outburst appears to have rippled down from Hong Kong with a number of sources claiming
Morgan Stanley held talks with advisers, which may fire the starting gun on a long-awaited auction
early next year.
The investment bank holds Investa Property within its MSREF VI fund, which was raised in 2007, and
additionally controls close to 20 per cent in IOF.
Any sale is likely to necessitate the appointment of an investment bank to IOF, or its board of
independent directors, as well as Investa Property Group, depending on how Morgan Stanley
structures its exit.
The New York bank famously snapped up the sprawling property empire at the pinnacle of the credit
boom in 2007, paying $4.7 billion for the assets in a highly-leveraged deal.

Since then Morgan Stanley has steadily shrunk the Investa asset base, paying down debt and
securing a new $1.9bn senior banking facility.
While a resurgence in property values has bolstered the performance of this top-of-the-cycle
purchase, many doubt whether the institutional investors MSREF VI would see a return on their
money.

There are many permutations to any deal. Morgan Stanley may of course continue to gradually sell
down the core portfolio, as it has done with a number of its other Australian assets.

Alternatively, the properties could be shunted into IOF, with public markets tapped to fund the
acquisition. A second capital raising would then be needed to internalise the listed vehicle's
management.

Another strategy would be to appoint an adviser to IOF to draw suitors for that fund, while charging a
second set of advisers to lure institutional investors for Investa. In that scenario the line-up is likely to
include heavyweights such as TIAA Henderson, and a host of global pension and sovereign wealth
funds.
Finally, there is always the potential for Blackstone, which is shifting into core real estate, to also take
a tilt.
Alinta bidding to begin THERE was speculation the $2.5 billion-plus Alinta Energy could be subject
to a carve-up, but it has since emerged that should the sale unfold that way, it would happen via a
three-way split.

Prospective bidders for the asset are expected to receive confidentiality agreements next week. Once
these are signed suitors will receive an information memorandum on Alinta.
US private equity owner TPC Capital will strive to find one buyer for the complex mix of energy
assets but if this proves impossible, it is expected to sell off the assets piecemeal or attempt an initial
public offering.

On offer are 10 gas-fired power stations throughout Australia and New Zealand and the Flinders
coal-fired power station in South Australia. Lazard has been appointed as an adviser to run Alinta's
sales process, but Macquarie Group is very close to Alinta and its private equity owner, TPG Capital.
Overall, the company's earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation is about $350
million - $20m, or 5 per cent of which is derived from Flinders.

Should the three-way split occur it would be structured in a way where one offering would be gas retail
assets, predominantly within Western Australia, which is expected to attract Origin Energy, AGL
Energy and EnergyAustralia.

The second offering would be geared up to appeal to infrastructure investors; power stations with
long-term power contracts in place. Groups such as Japan suitors Marubeni Corporation and
Sumitomo Corporation would be likely buyers.

Finally, non-contracted power stations, which fed into the network when demand was high, would be
pieced together for a prospective suitor. They would pay for a so-called "bottom dollar basis".

Page128of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.There have also been suggestions the timing of the sale is set to coincide with Queensland and NSW
state government electricity privatisations.
Bidding consortiums could also break up the portfolio following the purchase of Alinta as a whole.
Should AGL Energy be a buyer of the entire business, it would either have to sell or exclude the
South Australian asset Flinders coal-fired power station from the deal for competition reasons.The
businesses include a string of gas-powered generators in Western Australia, coal generators in South
Australia, a New Zealand power station and a retail electricity service on the eastern seaboard.

aanzb : Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Limited | charb : China Communications
Construction Co., Ltd. | leiho : Leighton Holdings Ltd | dwitd : Morgan Stanley | jhgpl : John Holland
Group Pty Ltd | hocht : Hochtief AG | ocisa : ACS Actividades de Construcciones y Servicios SA
i831 : Financial Investments | iinv : Investing/Securities | ifinal : Financial Services | i502 : Heavy
Construction | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | i83101 : Investment Banking | ibnk :
Banking/Credit | iconst : Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction
c182 : Asset Transactions | reqris : Suggested Reading Investing/Securities | c18 : Ownership
Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis |
reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | china : China | saustr : South Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141204eac50003y

CO

IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page129of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.