Commodity Hangover: A Boom Town Feels Chill

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Commodity Hangover: A Boom Town Feels Chill

By Rhiannon Hoyle
2,085 words
9 June 2014
The Wall Street Journal
J
A1
English
(Copyright (c) 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

MORANBAH, Queensland -- Two years ago, real-estate agent Bella Exposito said she was selling as
many as 25 houses a day as soaring coal prices lured workers and investors to this flyspeck Outback
town.

As of May this year, she has sold three.

A cream-and-brown weatherboard house near her office rented for nearly US$7,000 a month when the
region's coal industry was booming; now it has been empty for 12 months. Downtown shops have gone
vacant. At Cafe 17, a local diner serving eggs and baked beans in the morning, visitors could fire a
cannon and not hit a soul some days.
"There is a lot of hurt in the town," says one mine worker employed at the Goonyella Riverside coal
mine run by BHP Billiton Ltd. and Mitsubishi Corp., which is among the many operations to pare
workers over the past year. "It feels like it is dying a slow death."

After a decade of soaring commodity prices, this is what it looks like when the party starts to end.
For years, the global grab for coal, iron ore, copper and other commodities brought riches to small
mining communities across the globe. It also helped lift the broader economies of resource-rich
nations from Peru to Mongolia to Indonesia. In Australia, a heavyweight in the industry, the boom
helped the country sidestep recession when other developed economies hit the wall in recent years.

But more recently, commodity prices have fallen, in some cases dramatically, because of jitters over
the cooling economy in China -- where growth in commodity imports has slowed -- and rising supply
from mines planned when markets were booming.
Prices for steelmaking coal have slumped by half since the start of 2012 to around US$110 a ton, their
lowest level in seven years. Iron-ore prices have dropped to less than $95 a ton from a peak of more
than $190 in 2011, while copper, gold and other commodities have also declined.

While current prices are still generally higher than a decade ago, and optimists hope for a recovery,
prices are low enough that some mines are now losing money. Big resources firms like BHP, Rio Tinto
PLC and Anglo American PLC have vowed to strip billions of dollars from their annual costs to
safeguard profits and improve returns to shareholders.

That means shuttering mines, delaying new projects and slashing jobs in communities that have
benefited from the boom. While not all mining towns are as bad off as Moranbah, the downturn is a
reminder that overreliance on commodities can be dangerous, even in places that seemed to have
everything going for them not long ago.
In South Africa, producers of platinum, gold and coal have cut thousands of jobs, including in smaller
communities like Carletonville, west of Johannesburg in the country's Witwatersrand goldfields.
Municipal leaders there expressed regret in their most recent annual report for a "problematic"
over-dependence on mining, while the national government is licking its wounds from lost funding from
mining and petroleum royalties and leases, which dropped 20% in the year ended March 2013.

Page45of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Overall economic growth in South Africa slowed to 1.9% last year from a 2000s peak of 5.6% in 2006,
in part because of weaker resources revenues.
In Brazil, whose economy soared on the back of iron ore and other commodity exports, forecasters
now expect growth to be as little as 1.5% this year, down from 7.5% in 2010. Jobs at mines in places
like Parauapebas -- a town that sprouted up on the edge of the Amazon when mining giant Vale SA
started producing iron ore in the nearby Carajas hills in the 1980s -- have become scarce.

"I've been living here since '97, and there has never been such a lack of jobs," said 38-year-old Benildo
Oliveira dos Santos, a mechanic, as he waited in line outside an unemployment office late last year.

In Australia, leaders are struggling to replace revenue and jobs from a resources boom many people
thought would last for years to come, based on the expectation that China's heated growth would
absorb ever higher amounts of resources for decades.
Iron ore and coal are the country's largest exports, and eight of the country's top-10 goods and
services sold abroad are commodities. At the peak of the commodity surge a few years ago, labor was
in such short supply that mine-site truck drivers commanded salaries of A$200,000 (US$185,750) a
year.
Over the past 18 months, the Australian mining sector has cut an estimated 30,000 jobs, according to
Jody Elliott Consulting, a resources recruitment specialist. Last year was the worst year for job growth
in Australia in almost two decades, largely because of commodity-sector weakness, while the national
jobless rate recently reached a decade-high of 6.1%.

Australia's economy is still growing: it expanded about 2.4% last year compared with a recent high of
4.5% in 2007. But it is getting harder to plug holes in the national budget without surging mining
royalties. The national government recently forecast a A$47 billion budget shortfall for the current
fiscal year ending June 30. Spending on resources projects has been falling at its fastest pace in 14
years.
Some of the worst pain has been felt in coal-rich Queensland state, where Moranbah is located. Nearly
10,000 coal-mine workers have been laid off with many mines operating at a loss, according to the
Queensland Resources Council.
The Queensland state government reported a A$650 million plunge in the year through June 2013 to
A$2.1 billion in revenue from royalties, a set percentage from the sale of commodities demanded by
the government for extracting the country's resources. State officials have deferred plans to ease
payroll taxes and are looking to sell assets like toll roads, among other steps, to balance the books.

For Moranbah, a tiny town more than 600 miles north of Brisbane surrounded by cattle stations,
low-lying scrub and gum trees, that is a bitter pill to swallow.
Coal mining is so ingrained here that the local newsstand sells postcards of coal trains and mining
equipment -- like dragline machines, which can haul hundreds of tons of waste rock in a single sweep --
while the local child-care center uses a cartoon dump truck as its logo.

The town was established in 1969 to serve new mines in the region, like the Goonyella operation set up
by Utah Development Co., which would be acquired by BHP Billiton in 1984.

More mines opened, and Moranbah grew rapidly in the 1970s and 1980s, despite an inhospitable
climate with temperatures of 104 degrees or above in the summer. Locals put down roots and took
pride in their expanding community, winning multiple "Tidy Towns" awards from the Keep Australia
Beautiful Council. A key moment: In 1982, residents established their first cemetery, which meant they
no longer had to transport bodies elsewhere to be laid to rest.

After leveling off for a while in the 1990s, growth took off again in the 2000s, when Asian demand for
coal spiked and prices surged.

A McDonald's opened and the area's population ballooned by more than 1,000 people a year, including
temporary workers who would fly in for stretches at the mines.

At the Moranbah Community Workers Club, a bar and bistro with flat-screen TVs and designer chairs,
proprietors borrowed to finance a A$5 million dollar renovation in 2012 and 2013 that included a new
A$100,000 keg room. Housing prices went through the roof as local mines worked around the clock.

"We thought: Finally, you know, we are all going to get somewhere," said Leanne Ellis, who runs Cafe
17 and has lived in the town for 26 years.

Page46of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Then, almost as quickly as it began, the boom stopped.

The BMA joint venture of BHP and Mitsubishi Corp., the area's largest employer, closed its nearby
Norwich Park and Gregory mines in 2012, wiping out some 1,200 jobs. Now it is axing 230 more at its
Saraji mine, half an hour's drive south of the town, though it said some positions could be relocated
elsewhere.

In all, BMA has pared its workforce in the Bowen Basin -- a series of mines for which Moranbah serves
as a northern hub -- to around 7,000 staff and contractors from more than 10,000.
Other companies including Arrow Energy, a joint venture of Royal Dutch Shell PLC and PetroChina Co.
that operates a coal-seam-gas field nearby, have laid off staff. So, too, have many shop owners and
other small businesses that rely on resources investment. Resources companies cut spending in the
area to about A$1.6 billion in the year to June 2013, from around A$1.8 billion the previous year,
according to the latest data collected by local industry.

The Isaac Regional Council, a government body that includes several towns in the area, said annual
income from taxes and other revenues dropped to A$142.9 million in the last fiscal year, from A$147.6
million the year prior, and its cash holdings have fallen sharply. The council has cut the budget for
infrastructure works and upped tax rates for homeowners.

Many residents have bailed out entirely. Moranbah's population fell to 12,865 from 13,575 in the last
fiscal year, with declines likely to continue this year, authorities say. For the Moranbah Bulldogs, who
play Australian Rules Football in a local league, it can be a struggle to field a team.
Homes valued around a million Australian dollars are now lucky to get a bite at half that price,
according to Ms. Exposito, the real-estate agent. About 300 of the town's 4,000 privately owned houses
are vacant, she says.

Ms. Exposito, who grew up in northern Spain, says she loved the community feel of Moranbah and
would hate to see it disappear. She landed in Moranbah in her 20s after moving to Australia and
looking for a community that didn't have its own real-estate agency. She says now she spends part of
her time consoling depressed residents. She has worries of her own: She owns 20 properties, five of
which sit empty.

At Cafe 17 down the road, Mrs. Ellis says she only needs two staff a day now from five previously. Her
husband, Michael, who will celebrate his 50th birthday this year, is among those who have lost their
jobs in the mines. They are now debating whether to leave.

"My husband and I love Moranbah, it is our town," said Mrs. Ellis, who moved there at age 19 after
growing up in a smaller community to the south. She recalls doing small things to make life better,
including banding with merchants to convince the local council to pipe music through the Town Square
retail strip. "We look out for each other," she said, as Aretha Franklin's "I Say A Little Prayer" streamed
through the loudspeakers.

Local leaders have talked about new industries as diverse as tourism, defense and even algae
production for biofuels, but few investors have expressed interest in a place so remote with such high
costs.
At least Moranbah still has hundreds of years' worth of coal below the surface. Some of the world's
older mining towns, including some in America's Appalachian states, face a bleaker future because
their resources are drying up.

That gives leaders hope they may only need to get through a temporary period of pain, especially if
China's economy stabilizes and its demand for imported coal outpaces new supply growth, as some
experts believe could happen a few years from now.

Ashley Dowd, the 38-year-old manager of the Moranbah Community Workers Club, says it will take
years to repay debts after his bar's recent renovation. He receives job applications from residents laid
off by local miners but says he is usually not able to provide much work, having cut his own staff to 15
from 20 as fewer townsfolk stop by to indulge in Jack Daniel's-soaked pork ribs.

"It will be batten-down-the-hatches and try and ride through this period the best we can," Mr. Dowd
said.

---

Paul Kiernan contributed to this article.

Page47of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

CO
IN

NS

RE

IPC
PUB
AN

bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | mtsubc : Mitsubishi Corp | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i111 : Coal Mining | i61 : Wholesalers | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services |
iindstrls : Industrial Goods | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i1 : Energy | iretail : Retail | i64 : Retail/Wholesale
| ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies
c42 : Labor/Personnel Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | greest : Real Estate/Property | mirono
: Iron Ore Markets | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | npag : Page-One Stories | reqren : Suggested
Reading Energy | reqrre : Suggested Reading Retail | gcat : Political/General News | m14 : Commodity
Markets | m142 : Metals Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types |
nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | redit :
Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | braz : Brazil | eurz : Europe | safr : South Africa | uk : United Kingdom | africaz : Africa
| apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | eecz : European Union Countries | lamz : Latin America |
samz : South America | souafrz : Southern Africa | weurz : Western Europe
AEQI
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document J000000020140609ea6900020

Page48of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.