Jobs for the boys with emerging cask boiled along and rail growth

HD
WC 781 words
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

Jobs for the boys with emerging cask boiled along and rail growth

19 July 2014
The Queensland Times
APNQUT
Main
18
English
Copyright 2014 APN Newspapers Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved

TIME PASTwith Beryl Johnston

TIME PAST

TD

with Beryl Johnston

DURING the 1850s in Ipswich there were several boiling down works on either side of the Bremer River.

Two were established on the bank of the river opposite Moores Pocket (named after one of the early
blacksmiths) and those of Mr John ‘Schemer’ and the Aberdeen Company known as Tooths.

Mr RJ Smith had a boiling down establishment at Town Marie (named after his wife) near Tivoli, North
Ipswich.

At this works there were a great number of men employed and among them was ‘GipsyBob’ John
Clements, two of the Slack family and a McGrory.

Cask making was a flourishing trade and the coopers were always busy.

Silky wood was formed into staves and these casks containing tallow, were sent to England. Tallow
candles were used at the time and cost nine pence per lb.
One of the largest of the boiling down works was erected on a site (later known as Ivory Estate) at
Bundamba by Mr Joe Fleming. By the erection of these Bremer Mills Mr Fleming provided employment for
hundreds of people.

Employed at the Bremer Mills at that time was Mr James Reilly, who subsequently erected saw-mills
overlooking the old swamp which became a park at North Ipswich.

The first locally appointed registrar of births, marriages and death in Ipswich in the 1850s was Mr William
Hendren and an auctioneer of 1856 Mr RP Whitehouse had his sale room on the site of the Palais Royal
Hotel, cnr Brisbane and East Sts.

The second police magistrate appointed by the New South Wales Government was Lieutenant- Colonel
Charles George Gray, who came in 1853.

He succeeded Mr Hannibel Macarthur, who had married the daughter of Captain William Bligh.

It is thought that she was buried in Ipswich.
About 1851, Moreton Bay became almost deserted owing to the discovery of gold, and men left the area
to travel to distant parts to pan or dig for the metal.
Skilled mechanics and labourers trekked to these new diggings and business men put up their shutters.
Gold fever became so bad the squatters in the regions imported Chinese labourers.

RAILWAYS

Page40of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.DURING the latter part of the 1860s in Ipswich a movement for the extension of the railway line to “deep
water” became an issue.

This culminated in parliament deciding to extend the line to Roma St, Brisbane, and on January30, 1973,
the first sod of this extension was turned by His Excellency the Marquis of Normanby. This was at a spot
in the cutting near the Six Mile Bridge.

There was no distinguishing mark to mark this auspicious occasion.

The deviation of the Southern and Western Railway from Ipswich to Toowoomba via Sadliers Crossing –
some three miles, 40 chains and 40 links – was also undertaken at the same time as the Ipswich Brisbane
extension, commencing between West and Ellenborough Sts.
To assist in the work being undertaken, locomotive No.13 B.12 and wagons were conveyed from North
Ipswich to Bundamba via Brisbane Rd, by means of a team of bullocks and then place on the line.

The engine was in charge of Mr Thomas Hook (later a locomotive foreman at North Ipswich) as driver,
and Mr W Henderson as fireman.

This was on June3, 1974, and on September25, 1974, the loop line connecting the Ipswich terminus with
the Brisbane extension was completed, enabling the engine to run into Ipswich.
WINE AND RUM
HARWOOD Vineyard Pine Mt was for sale in February, 1887. Mr John Watson was the owner and the
crushing capacity of the vineyard equalled about 1,900 gallons, while 400–500 Four hundred five hundred
gallons of wine were stored up from vintages extending back to 1885.
At the vineyard were cellars, a wine shed, a residence and an office.

In 1886 it was reported that Mr TL Smith, of Woodlands, Marburg, had erected a large distillery with a
continuous still near the sugar mill for the purpose of making rum from the molasses refuse from the mill.

ART

IT WAS found that a picture in a French gallery had been hung sideways. Many people though it
represented two poached eggs. They were surprised to learn it was really the harvest moon reflected in a
lake.

POLITICS

“POLITICS in the Colony are such a pitiful farce and the mockery of late years have been so transparent
that the majority of Queensland Times readers probably are beginning to care very little whether thy do or
do not enjoy the election franchise.” (QT, April9, 1870.)

NS
RE

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania

IPD Community - People
PUB APN Newspapers Pty Ltd
AN

Document APNQUT0020140718ea7j000dy

Page41of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.