Cheung Kong in offer for offshore pipeline

CLM
SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

acquisitions
Business
Cheung Kong in offer for offshore pipeline

Peggy Sito peggy.sito@scmp.com
612 words
31 May 2014
South China Morning Post
SCMP
1
1
English
(c) 2014 South China Morning Post Publishers Limited, Hong Kong. All rights reserved.

Envestra is Li Ka-shing’s latest overseas

target as group rebalances local holdings in favour of foreign assets with higher returns

Cheung Kong (Holdings), Cheung Kong Infrastructure (CKI) and Power Assets have joined hands
to acquire Envestra, an Australian gas pipeline firm, in a cash deal worth A$2.37 billion (HK$17
billion).

The firms in the consortium are all controlled by Li Ka-shing, Asia’s richest man.

The cash offer is the latest in a string of overseas acquisitions by the Cheung Kong group of
companies as it rebalances its holdings in Hong Kong and on the mainland in favour of
international assets offering higher growth and returns.

The news came a day after AS Watson, the retailing arm of Hutchison Whampoa, said it would sell
its 50 per cent stake in a joint venture, Nuance-Watson Group, which operates travel retail
businesses in airports and duty-free stores in shopping centres in cities including Hong Kong,
Macau and Singapore and on the mainland.

AS Watson said it would sell the interest in Nuance-Watson to its partner, The Nuance Group.
Hutchison agreed in March to sell a 25 per cent stake in AS Watson to Singapore’s Temasek for
HK$44 billion and pushed back plans for an initial public offering for the unit.

The three firms in the consortium said in a joint statement yesterday that they had offered an
off-market takeover bid for all of Envestra’s shares for a cash consideration of A$1.32 a share.

In a statement to the Australian Securities Exchange yesterday, Envestra said its chairman and an
independent board committee had unanimously recommended the cash offer.

CKI is a subsidiary of Hutchison Whampoa, which is 49.97 per cent owned by Cheung Kong. Power
Assets is 38.87 per cent owned by CKI.
The offer price values Envestra at about A$2.37 billion. The offer will be financed through existing
cash reserves and credit facilities available to the three firms in the consortium, according to the
Envestra announcement.

CKI, through a wholly owned subsidiary, already owns 17.46 per cent of Envestra and is its
second-largest shareholder.

By accepting the consortium’s offer, Envestra is reversing its previous support for a share-swap
offer from its largest shareholder, APA, Australia’s largest gas pipeline group.

Page207of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Envestra had recommended APA’s bid for about two months, but companies related to CKI
opposed it and unexpectedly submitted a higher, cash offer.

“Given that 80 per cent of Envestra’s gas coverage is in South Australia and Victoria, the
acquisition would enable us to further share our expertise and to explore opportunities for
synergy,” CKI group managing director Kam Hing-lam said.

Kam said CKI’s investment in Envestra in 1999 was its first entry into the Australian market. It now
has a portfolio of regulated energy businesses in Australia comprising SA Power Networks and
Victoria Power Networks.

The buying consortium expects that a bidder’s statement will be lodged with the Australian
Securities and Investments Commission, the Australian Securities Exchange, and Envestra by the
middle of next month.

According to Envestra, the deal is subject to conditions including approval from Australia’s Foreign
Investment Review Board, and the consortium is required to acquire a relevant interest in more than
50 per cent of Envestra’s shares, including CKI’s existing stake.

Li Kwok-suen, a fund manager at Phillip Capital Management, described it as a logical move by the
Cheung Kong group to enlarge its asset size by acquiring higher-yielding assets.

aswacl : A.S. Watson & Company, Limited | chkinf : Cheung Kong Infrastructure Holdings Ltd | ckh :
Cheung Kong (Holdings) Limited | envest : Envestra Ltd. | hutwam : Hutchison Whampoa Limited |
nuawhl : Nuance-Watson (HK) Limited | gcos : Gecos Generale di Commercio e Servizi SpA |
nuafra : The Nuance Group | stfnl : Stefanel SpA
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i502 : Heavy Construction | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i644 :
Cosmetics/Perfume Stores | i654 : Specialty Stores | i656 : Mixed Retailing | i8396 : Diversified
Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | iconst : Construction | icre : Real
Estate/Construction | ireest : Real Estate | iretail : Retail
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | ncolu : Columns | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
South China Morning Post Publishers Limited
Document SCMP000020140530ea5v00045

CO

IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page208of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.