Rise and rise of the lower west side

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Domain
Rise and rise of the lower west side

Words by DANNY CORVINI
1,637 words
23 August 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
8
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

COVER STORY

The area of Surry Hills near Central Station, traditionally not as popular with buyers, is enjoying a
renaissance thanks to a plethora of hip bars, restaurants and new apartments.

Once tormented by madam Kate Leigh's razor gangs, Surry Hills in more recent times has been a
suburb divided in two by perception.

Buyers began discovering the upper side of the suburb around Crown Street in the late 1990s but the
lower, Central Station side, with its smaller houses and ad hoc residential and commercial mix, failed
to attract the same interest.
Now a flood of new apartment developments, including the Bedford, East Central, Emiliano, the Ashlar
and the Foveaux are changing the tone of lower Surry Hills and combining with a range of new
amenities and impending infrastructure to make it irresistible to buyers who overlooked it before.

CPM Realty is marketing The Bedford apartments at the corner of Bedford and Elizabeth streets that
will be completed at the start of September. Managing director Sam Elbanna says there has been a
groundswell of activity in this part of Surry Hills in the past 12 months and that he can't see it slowing
anytime soon.

BresicWhitney director Shannon Whitney, who has been a resident in these parts since the late 1990s,
says the arrival of "interesting and pioneering" restaurants, bars and cafes about five years ago
catering to the creative industries triggered the current surge in interest. "What we're seeing now is the
natural response from the residential sector, which typically comes after the popularity of a lifestyle,"
he says.
The boldest of all of the entrants is the Foveaux, an apartment block that will rise on the former Legion
Cabs site opposite a Justin Hemmes-owned pub the Excelsior.
CBRE Residential Projects director Caroline Fagerlund expects to sell the bulk of the apartments at
the launch in September and says that buyers are likely to be locals, including a strong gay contingent,
and investors wanting a piece of the action.

Further down the hill, sales executive Ryan Alfoldi of Colliers International is selling East Central
apartments on Elizabeth Street. It will be completed in November and only eight apartments remain for
sale. Among the building's attractions is a seven-level void with a giant bamboo garden. The same
group will build more apartments next door, called Botanik, which they will start selling in October. The
City of Sydney Council has applications for a further two residential developments along Elizabeth
Street, and Alfoldi predicts that the street will become increasingly attractive to retailers and
restaurateurs.

Page235of416©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.New recreational facilities to open nearby include the pool, tennis and basketball courts at Prince Alfred
Park, and cyclists will soon have a separated bike path along Campbell Street connecting Taylor
Square to the city. Residents will also gain a new pedestrian link to Darling Harbour when the Goods
Line walkway - which will connect to the Devonshire Street tunnel - opens next year.

But the new light rail line, which will cross Elizabeth Street at Devonshire Street, will be the biggest
change to the suburb when it opens in 2019/2020.
While the construction period is going to cause frustration, the Domain Group's senior economist
DrAndrew Wilson says the infrastructure can only make the suburb - which experienced property price
growth of 18.5 per cent in the past year - even more in-demand.

While this all points to a resurgence in lower Surry Hills, Wilson warns that government planners must
match developers' enthusiasm with an equal amount of zeal to maintain its liveability and unique
character.

ATTRACTIONS ON THE LOWER WEST SIDE

Get a culture fix at the Belvoir Street Theatre and The Old 505 Theatre, or step back in time at the
Golden Age Cinema on Commonwealth Street, or the Hollywood Hotel on Foster Street.

Try the hot dogs at Brooklyn Social on Randle Street, and don't pass up a burger from Chur Burger on
Albion Street. The foil-wrapped sandwiches at Malibu on Foster Street, are among the best in Sydney.
Have a tipple at Tipple Bar on Chalmers Street, or Vini on Devonshire Street, 121BC on Holt Street, or
Li'l Darlin on Elizabeth Street. Drink with the locals at the Strawberry Hills Hotel, the Shakespeare, the
Royal Albert or the KB Hotel. For a Latin vibe, check out Bodega, El Loco, or Tio's.

'IT'S THE CENTRE OF INNER CITY LIVING'

CASE STUDY
Architect Joko Tandijono bought his top floor, one-bedroom apartment in the Icon building above the
Evening Star Hotel six years ago.

Tandijono lived in Zetland previously and says he enjoyed watching lower Surry Hills emerge into a
drinking and dining hotspot - especially the arrival of Melbourne's Movida restaurant just around the
corner on Holt Street.

"There's a lot of places around for drinks and it's close to everything," he says. "It's five minutes' walk to
Central and the Prince Alfred Park Pool and 15 minutes' walk to Chinatown. It's the centre of inner-city
living."
Tandijono got a job in Paris two years ago and has rented the apartment for $650 a week since. He's
recently taken another position that will mean 10 more years in Europe, so he's decided that it's time to
part with his Australian base.

"It's got two really huge balconies. One is open air because it's on the top floor, and it's got this really
wonderful view of the district," he says. "The light in the house is really quite amazing. One of the
balconies is south-west facing and the other one is east facing, so you get the morning light, then you
also get part of the evening light. It's quite a big apartment for a one bedder at 80 square metres - and
the layout is great because if you want to have a party you can have it in a really separate area."

It is going to auction on September 6 through agents BresicWhitney,

0430 030 287, with a guide of more than $700,000.
What we're seeing now is the natural response from the residential sector, which typically comes after
the popularity of a lifestyle. BresicWhitney director Shannon Whitney
COVER PROPERTY

SURRY HILLS, "THE FOVEAUX", 81 Foveaux Street

PRICE GUIDE: $700,000+

The moment that lower Surry Hills entered the main game, will be remembered as when fashion boss
Danny Avidan dropped a cool $18 million on the Legion Cabs site on Foveaux Street to build an
apartment block.

Page236of416©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The 55-apartment, north-facing development gets under way in October and will be unlike anything
that side of the suburb has seen before, says Caroline Fagerlund, director of CBRE Residential. The
architect, Adam Haddow from SBJ, says he made a deliberate departure from the all-too-common
industrial grunge style, and opted for a brighter, far more optimistic design. "The Foveaux is a concrete
building that is strong and robust with crisp white accents and natural timber screens," he says. "It's a
playful reflection on the eclectic fabric of the suburb."
Iain Halliday from design firm BKH has designed the Foveaux's interiors and his custom joinery units
incorporate built-in banquettes finished with fabric upholstery, which will allow better light and sight
lines from the kitchen through to the living room.

Fagerlund says residents will also love the timber floors throughout the apartments, the coloured,
high-gloss ceilings and the north-facing balconies.

Residents will also be able to enjoy an enchanting rooftop communal garden with brilliant city views.
The Foveaux apartments are due for completion in 2016. The display suite opens this weekend and the
official launch is on September 13. Prices start at $700,000 for a one-bedroom apartment, $995,000
for two-bedders and $1.5 million for three-bedders.

Inspect Display apartments, 65 Foveaux Street, 11am-5pm, seven days.
Agent CBRE Residential,

0414 430 094

More photos: see foveauxapartments.com.au

OR TRY THESE ...

"ASHLAR"

150 COMMONWEALTH STREET

$600,000
Designed by SJB, Ashlar is a six-storey apartment block that will replace a nondescript distribution
warehouse that's on the site. On offer are 25

one-, two- and three-bedroom apartments and a penthouse, with completion set for 2016. The
Calacatta Viola honed marble benchtops in the kitchen and Carrara marble tiles in the bathroom are
stylish highlights. Expect classic but not conservative - this is Surry Hills, after all.
Inspect display apartment by appointment: Lv 7, 219 Castlereagh St, Sydney Agent TGC Residential
Projects, 0478 166 604

More photos www.ashlarsurryhills.com.au

138 DEVONSHIRE STREET

$1.3 million+
Just around the corner from Holt Street restaurants, this tri-level terrace is mixed zone 10, residential
and commercial. It has been updated with an open-plan kitchen that flows to a courtyard - a potential
urban oasis. It has timber floorboards and exposed brick walls. There is a bedroom on every floor and
three of the four have balconies.

Inspect Sat, 10am-10.30am; Wed, 5.30pm-6pm

Agent Ray White Surry Hills, 0438 332 088

Auction September 6 More photos domain.com.au

8/33 RESERVOIR STREET

$750,000+
The warehouse-and-skyline view from this open plan, 60-square-metre loft style penthouse apartment
is the perfect urban picture. The no-fuss floor plan puts all of the living spaces, the internal laundry and
the big balcony on the lower floor while the bedroom and bathroom are in the loft. A storage cage is
also provided. Strata $1351 pq

Page237of416©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Inspect Sat, 1.20pm-2pm; Thurs, 5.15pm-5.45pm

Agent First National Spencer & Servi, 0412 485 485

Auction August 30 More photos domain.com.au

IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

irreal : Residential Real Estate | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ireest
: Real Estate
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020140822ea8n0008q

Page238of416©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.