Roadside litter proof 100% Pure is a joke

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Roadside litter proof 100% Pure is a joke

1,453 words
2 June 2014
The New Zealand Herald
NZHLD
A034
English
(c) 2014 The New Zealand Herald

Travelling out of Auckland recently, I saw continuous litter along the roadside, herbicides used along
the edges, in drains and around road signs, advertising hoardings multiplying across the
countryside, and hundreds upon hundreds of unnecessary traffic signs.

100% Pure? Get real. Most of the roadside litter will find its way into the rivers and streams and
eventually the sea.

And the quantity of litter I could see from my low vehicle would be a fraction of what the tourists see
from high up in their coaches.

I have found my retirement job. I will take a truck from Cape Reinga and pick up all the litter on my
way down to Wellington and dump it on Parliament grounds. I imagine that I will have a convoy
before I get to Taupo.

While MPs bleat about education being the key to the problem, a $2000 fine, as happens in the
United States, or a few "don't litter" notices, say on the back of the plethora of traffic signs, would
help.
David Parker, Howick. Victoria Park market What has happened to the vision for an exciting,
revamped Victoria Park market?

After an agonisingly drawn-out rebuilding, apart from the restaurants we now have a ghost town of
smart new shops, many untenanted, and virtually no visitors, even during weekends. Those shops
that are tenanted appear to be struggling to survive.

This was once a bustling, thriving market, if a bit scruffy, a favourite weekend destination for locals
and a must-visit for tourists. What is going on? Who is responsible? Where is the direction, the
imagination and the flair to get it operating again as a proper market?

After seeing Aucklanders' overwhelmingly positive endorsement and ongoing enjoyment of other
developments, such as the Wynyard Quarter and North Wharf, it must surely be possible to get an
icon like Victoria Park Market buzzing again.

Alan Brown, Freemans Bay. Watercare charges Once again, Watercare is increasing all its charges
for no apparent reason. Only last year it admitted healthy profits because of a dry summer and high
wastewater charges on gardeners as they poured water into the ground.

The public seems to like public ownership of assets, but we end up with a monopoly that can charge
whatever it likes, so it can pay management salaries well above what would be given in the private
sector.

I have no choice who I use to supply my water, therefore I must pay its rates. Public ownership in
the form of a monopoly is never of benefit to the consumer.

L. F. Jones, Te Atatu Peninsula. Coat-tailing MPs Gerry Brownlee, other National MPs, supporters,
and assorted hangers-on have accused the Mana and Internet parties of "stitching up" a deal and
"coat-tailing" on Hone Harawira's electorate of Te Tai Tokerau.

Page153of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.They need to be reminded that after taking hundreds of public submissions, the Electoral
Commission recommended last year that we should do away with the coat-tailing provision in MMP,
as well as reduce the party threshold from 5 to 4 per cent.
Justice Minister Judith Collins, perhaps too busy with trips to China and milk issues, refused to
implement the commission's recommendations. She cited a "lack of consensus" from MPs.

Translated into plain English, this meant Act and Peter Dunne opposed removing the coat-tailing
provision because it would affect a slim chance to bring additional MPs into Parliament on their
coat-tails.

John Key had the chance to remove this unpopular provision from MMP and failed to do so for their
self-interest. Now the chooks have come home to roost for National.

Frank Macskasy, Upper Hutt. State-house evictions Elderly and vulnerable people are being evicted
from state homes. This includes elderly widows of returned servicemen, and people who decades
ago were promised a state house for life.

The housing shortage has given the Government an excuse to move or demolish state homes to
make way for private redevelopment.
One group of pensioners, told their area was scheduled for redevelopment, thought Housing NZ
would be sprucing up their homes.

Redevelopment really meant developers building houses for profit and tenants evicted. Evictions
take place any time of day and even at night, particularly if they think the tenant is supported by a
political group like the Save Our State House Homes Group in Grey Lynn.

Who will be able to afford these expensive new houses built on broken promises and harassment?

Tenants' protection has been eroded by tenancy law changes, so now eviction is not based on
tenants' non-compliance or ineligibility.

Rather, evictions are based on Government efforts to create what amounts to a developer's delight.

Some people are resisting eviction ordered by Housing NZ under instructions from a heartless
Government. Good on the Tamaki people and all others who are resisting this cruel policy.

Caroline Mabry, Glen Eden. Library funding I do not know if your correspondent Bruce Butler has
statistics on library numbers, but I visit three or four fairly regularly and they are usually full of people
reading, researching or borrowing books, and generally enjoying themselves.

Libraries are vibrant and interesting places, often having speakers on different subjects,
celebrations of the feast days in our developing multi-cultural society, or story times for young
children.

Having access to the thoughts, ideas and imaginations of people distant in space and time is
possible by access to books, and libraries are one of the most precious things we have in our
community.

I would hope the council has researched borrower numbers and is planning accordingly.

Lucy Lamb, Epsom. Anglican confusion Over the past couple of weeks, we have read of the
Anglican confusion on the stance of same-sex relationships. About 10 options were considered at
the Anglican Synod and the outcome was a move in the liberal direction.

Every year ahead, the same debate will consume the week of Synod, and every year the
mainstream orthodox will be cajoled to shift a little more.

Now, we have had the fallout from the Synod's decision. We have now seen the first vicar exit this
compromised denomination. It should be that those who want to change what the true Anglican faith
was built upon leave the fold and begin their own denomination.

We have had the affirmation of the Synod's slippery slide by Louisa Wall, who welcomed the
Anglican Church's bold move, saying: "It says to me the Anglican Church has always been the most
progressive".

Is that going to be the church banner from now on? Progressive liberalism springs from the
foundation of relative values that have no compass.

Page154of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Absolute values, and respect for creative law in that our gender is intertwined with our identity, need
to be the unchanging foundation on which we stand, or we leave the path of wisdom.

Gabrielle Gregory, Omokoroa. North Shore rail Your correspondent Steve Newman says the
Auckland Council is not being fair to North Shore residents because it wants to spend money on the
inner-city rail loop which they will never use.

But the plan is to eventually convert the Northern busway into a railway. For that to work, the
inner-city rail loop must first be completed to allow the rail system to carry trains from all of the outer
suburbs of greater Auckland into and through the central hub.

Otherwise, the central railway hub will not be able to efficiently handle rail traffic from the North
Shore and onwards to other parts of Auckland.

Then the people from the North Shore would really be complaining.

David Mairs, Glendowie. Census data and privacy I would like assure your correspondent Johann
Nordberg that Statistics New Zealand does not sell the name, address and/or contact details of
individuals who complete our surveys, including the census, to any government or commercial
organisation.

When completing Statistics NZ surveys, including the census, the privacy of individuals' information
is protected by the 1975 Statistics Act and cannot be provided to other people or organisations.

Census information can be used only for statistical purposes and cannot identify individuals.
Individuals and organisations can buy statistical information from Statistics NZ, but it is always
aggregated to a level that protects the identification of individuals or households.

The census is an essential tool to help central government, councils, community groups, iwi, and
businesses to plan and provide services, including hospitals, kohanga reo, schools, roads, public
transport, and recreational facilities.

We need people to willingly provide the most accurate information to the census and other surveys.

To do that, trust in our policies and processes is of paramount importance to us.

Gareth Meech,

2013 Census general manager.

RF
RE

PUB
AN

lettmain02
nz : New Zealand | auckl : Auckland | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
W & H Newspapers Limited
Document NZHLD00020140601ea620001p

Page155of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.