Bankers stir Goodman interest

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Bankers stir Goodman interest

BRIDGET CARTER, BLAIR SPEEDY, Takeovers
465 words
30 April 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
21
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

INVESTMENT banks are canvassing private equity investors for interest in making a rival bid for food
manufacturer Goodman Fielder, amid signs any offer will need to top $2 billion in order to succeed.
Singapore-based Wilmar International, the world’s largest palm-oil producer and owner of a 10.1 per
cent stake in Goodman, teamed up with Hong Kong-based investment manager First Pacific to make
a full takeover bid at 65c per share last weekend, valuing the target company’s stock at $1.27bn.

The Goodman board has described the offer, which comes just weeks after the company’s fourth
profit downgrade in less than three years knocked its shares to a 19-month low of 47.5c, as
opportunistic and undervalued, but has indicated it is open to negotiations.

Market expectation of a higher bid emerging increased yesterday, with Goodman shares closing up
3.5c at 67c. However, it is believed investors are holding out for an offer of between 70c and 80c per
share, which would boost the total price as high as $2.1bn, including Goodman’s existing debt of $500
million.

It is also understood Goodman, which owns grocery staples such as Meadow Lea margarine and
Buttercup bread, would allow due diligence scrutiny of its accounts to any bidder whose offer tops 70c
per share.
CIMB analysts Alexander Beer and Daniel Broeren said they believed the company was worth 75c a
share based on the average earnings multiple in similar deals, but JPMorgan analyst Stuart Jackson
said he believed 65c was fair, and warned that Wilmar and First Pacific could drop their price if they
disliked the look of the accounts.
A number of dealmakers have shopped Goodman Fielder around to private equity investors over the
past year as a potential takeover target, but sources said no buyer had seriously pursued what is
widely perceived as a challenged business.
Among the investors familiar with the Goodman Fielder is Pacific Equity Partners, which launched an
unsuccessful $3.55bn takeover for the group with Bain Capital in 2005 when it was owned by Burns
Philp.

Paul Skamvougeras, deputy head of equities at 12 per cent shareholder Perpetual, urged Goodman’s
board to negotiate with the suitors.

Meanwhile, it is understood Goodman Fielder and advisers Credit Suisse are preparing information
memorandum documents for the sale or partial sale of Goodman Fielder’s $500m-plus dairy
business, likely to be completed in about a month.First Pacific owns Indofood, the largest dairy
company in Indonesia, and it is understood the company’s interest in Goodman Fielder is driven
mainly by the presence of its dairy assets, while Wilmar, owner of Australian sugar processor
Sucrogen, is keen on other parts of the business.

CO

fdgl : Goodman Fielder Ltd

Page84of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp : Consumer Goods
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cacqu : Acquisitions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140429ea4u0003k

Page85of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.