Volatile world is good for Rio: chairman

HD
CR
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Volatile world is good for Rio: chairman

AAP
454 words
8 May 2014
16:39
couriermail.com.au
NLCRMW
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

THE world is currently a volatile place but miner Rio Tinto historically thrives in unstable markets as
competitors struggle, says its chairman.
Speaking at the company's AGM, Mr du Plessis blamed Europe and, to a lesser extent, the United
States for the volatile markets which are expected to persist in the short-to-medium term.

His comments were in stake contrast to the upbeat views on America's and Europe's economies by the
Westpac and ANZ banks' chief executives as they unveiled record profits in the past week.
Number one customer China's performance is also variable, although Mr du Plessis was confident Rio
would enjoy a rising Asia's continued high demand for metals and minerals.

Mr du Plessis said the past five years had market volatility never seen before.

He blamed structural deficiencies and political tensions in Europe, the still unknown effects of the
unwinding of quantitative easing in the US and a low interest rate and low growth environment.

"If we can maintain a strong balance sheet - at the risk of sounding too Machiavellian - volatility plays to
our strengths," Mr du Plessis told reporters after the AGM in Melbourne on Thursday.

During stable boom times, a greater number of start-ups, highly leveraged and high-cost competitors
were around and Rio tended to be outperformed, he said.
"If you take a long-term view, we consistently outperform but tend to be outperformed by mining indexes
during healthy boom conditions," he said.
Despite problems such as the ill-fated $US38.1 billionAlcan aluminium acquisition and GFC, Rio had
significantly outperformed the OECD global mining index in the past 10 years, he said.
Rio lifting its underlying net profit by 10 per cent to $US10.2 billion in 2013 and increased dividends by
15 per cent.
It ruthlessly cut operating costs by $US2.3 billion, with more to come in 2014.

Chief executive Sam Walsh said the business was being turned around - referring to costs that had risen
- and the options over the next year were to decide whether to start growing it again or to return cash to
shareholders.
Rio's earnings currently are heavily reliant on its iron ore division.
However Mr du Plessis said all commodities "had their time in the sun", praising the copper division.
And Mr Walsh predicted even the maligned aluminium division would lift soon as China's dominance of
that space shrank.

Shareholders at the AGM passed a remuneration report that included a pay rise in line with inflation for
Mr Walsh, who received a $US10 million-plus package last year.

Rio's shares climbed 86 cents, or 1.4 per cent, to $61.46.

Page11of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.rtz : Rio Tinto PLC | rtzcra : Rio Tinto Group | craaus : Rio Tinto Ltd
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

CO
IN
NS
RE
PUB News Ltd.
AN

Document NLCRMW0020140508ea580005l

Page12of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.