Miners poised to protect capacity allocations as Western Australian ports go on sale block

Exclusive

Angela Kean

SE
HD Miners poised to protect capacity allocations as Western Australian ports go on sale block
BY
WC 757 words
PD
1 September 2014
SN
SNL Metals & Mining Daily: West Edition
SC
SNLMMDW
VOL Issue: 81997
LA
CY
LP

English
Copyright 2014. SNL Financial LC

TD

Miners active in Western Australia's Pilbara region will likely be trying to gain an audience with the state
government to gain certainty around their capacity allocations at Utah Point on the back of news that the
port has been earmarked for sale.

The government revealed Aug. 28 that it will be selling the Utah Point bulk handling facility at Port
Hedland, the Kwinana bulk terminal and the Perth Market Authority, with the three assets expected to
fetch between A$1 billion and A$2 billion.

These are the first assets to be sold off as the Western Australian government works to lower debt and
regain its AAA credit rating.

"These assets are better placed in the private sector," Premier Colin Barnett said in a statement. "They
are likely to be better run by the private sector."

Port Hedland's Utah Point bulk handling facility is one of four berths owned by the Pilbara Ports Authority.
It includes a shiploader, two stockyard product storage facilities and supporting infrastructure.
In the 2013 financial year, the facility — which has a capacity of around 20 million tonnes per annum and
ships iron ore, manganese and chromite — earned A$86.5 million in revenue, with A$44.1 million in
expenditure.
The main exporters using these facilities include Atlas Iron Ltd., Mineral Resources Ltd. subsidiary
Process Minerals International Pty. Ltd. and Consolidated Minerals Ltd.
Patersons Securities head of research Rob Brierley told SNL Metals & Mining that mining companies
that use the facility will no doubt be making inquiries to the government to make sure their allocations are
secure for the near term.
"I'm sure they would have a look at the data room or whatever is open to people just to see what was
going on there," he said. "It would be remiss of them not to do so."
Atlas Iron and Mineral Resources were unavailable for comment.
While these companies will likely be watching closely to see how the sale unfolds, the consensus seems
to be that the privatization of Utah Point will not have a significant impact on the operations of the users.

An analyst who did not want to be named told SNL that the contracted users will probably get "some sort
of favorable treatment" if the port facility sells.
The A$300 million Utah Point development was funded by the potential users of the port in exchange for
capacity allocation.

"They had exclusive rights to a certain proportion of its capacity for a period of time," Patersons' Brierley
told SNL. "I actually think they've got reasonably watertight agreements for the next couple of years."

While users will want to ensure the security of their allocations, it is unlikely they will look to buy the port,
whether it be in partnership with someone else or on their own, according to industry watchers.

Page89of186©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The analyst, who did not want to be named, told SNL that actual ownership of a port by a user is "pretty
rare."

Brierley said the price tag for the asset is just too large for any of the users to consider acquiring the port
on their own, estimating that it could fetch between A$500 million and A$800 million.

The port assets are likely to be sold as a long-term lease, according to Barnett, with the deal including the
sale of the fee per tonne that the government charges each user, which could mean a potential hike in
charges under new private ownership.

"It's always an issue. Whenever you privatize you're subject to the vagaries of market conditions, and at
the moment the Port Hedland port is very full," Brierley said. "So in that case they may have some
concerns in the medium to long term, but I don't think there's anything in the short term to worry about."
Meanwhile, interest in the purchase of the Utah Point bulk handling facility is most likely to come from
pension or infrastructure funds and less so from Chinese buyers, according to Brierley.

"I think it's more attractive to an infrastructure fund or a pension fund that's looking for a return above their
cost of capital," he said.
Brierley tips Australian freight logistics companyAsciano Ltd., multinational property and infrastructure
firm Lend Lease and logistics and infrastructure player Qube Logistics Holdings Ltd. as potential buyers.
He also sees the Ontario Teachers' Fund or a private equity group as possible buyers.

IN
NS

RE

i763 : Port/Harbor Operations | iship : Water Transport/Shipping | itsp : Transportation/Shipping
c24 : Capacity/Facilities | greg : Regional Politics | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat :
Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics
austr : Australia | usut : Utah | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
| namz : North America | usa : United States | usw : Western U.S.

IPD Industry News
PUB SNL Financial LC
AN

Document SNLMMDW020140904ea910000n

Page90of186©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.