Foreign developers on high-rise site hunt

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Foreign developers on high-rise site hunt

Samantha Hutchinson
639 words
29 October 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
35
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Strong demand among developers trying to secure a future supply chain of apartments has agents
banking on a flurry of transactions taking place as Christmas approaches.

Foreign developers including JQZ, Aqualand Australia and R&F Properties are on the hunt for
properties, agents say. In Melbourne, Chinese group Greenland Holdings has been running the ruler
over a site in Southbank carrying development approval, while rival offshore groups UEM Sunrise
and Country Garden are also expanding Melbourne holdings.

Large-scale sites on the market include the Goldfingers site on the corner of Lonsdale and King
streets, listed for $40 million, and 8 Spencer Street, which is priced at $37 million.
In Sydney, a site near Granville in the city's west with development approval for more than 200
apartments is understood to be coming to market. It is owned by a private investor and Ray White
agents Jeff Moxham and Scott Timbrell hold the listing.
Elsewhere, UrbanGrowth NSW is preparing a major residential and mixed-use development site at
Delhi Road in North Ryde for launch to market. Sources close to the government body indicate that
agents at CBRE and Matrix Property Group have been appointed to market the property.

"There's so much demand at the moment to build a future supply chain," Knight Frank valuer Chris
Sutton said.

"In the past, groups have been hesitant to go out on a limb for a project to be built over the next three
to five years, but it seems banks' appetite for lending is growing . . . The sites are providing good
profits and good turnover for them. The best example is Meriton; they've spent more than $600 million
in the past two years. That shows a level of confidence in the future market."Local groups want to add
value
Foreign developers are still dominating site sales, while local private developers and listed groups are
looking for more complex sites where they can add value, according to agents.

"An alternate strategy for established players has been to take longer-term views by purchasing sites
without approval as most new entrants are not willing to take on planning risk," said Tyron Hodge, a
director of valuations and advisory at JLL.
Sydney-based property investor Galileo Property is also busy scouting properties throughout
Sydney's inner ring as construction nears completion on its sold-out Metro project in Chatswood.
The group bid aggressively on a Balmain waterfront apartment site that Toga Group bought for
$58 million. Frasers Property Australia, which was the second underbidder, is also back on the hunt
for inner-city sites, agents say.

Page103of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The regional centre of Parramatta is also experiencing a new wave of sales activity in the wake of a
new planning framework which has proposed higher floor-space ratios and no height limits on towers
in the inner city.
Listed and private groups, including Walker Group, Lend Lease Group, DEXUS Property Group,
Charter Hall Group, Dyldam and Leighton Properties, are in the running for development rights of
stages two, five and six of the $2 billion Parramatta Square civic redevelopment, as revealed by The
Australian Financial Review on Monday.
But development and site sales are afoot throughout Parramatta. A site at 9 Hassell Street with
development approval for 164 apartments and 23 levels will soon come to market, to be handled by
Knight Frank's Dominic Ong. Sources close to the vendor indicate it could fetch as much as
$30 million.
Another family-owned development group associated with the Heartland Holden car dealership is
seeking development approval for an 800-unit site with 40,000 square metres of commercial space
in a Parramatta precinct known as Gateway South. Sources close to the site have indicated it could
come up for sale following approval of the application.

CO
IN
NS
RE
PUB
AN

gzrfpc : Guangzhou R&F Properties Co Ltd | uemlhb : UEM Sunrise Berhad
ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141028eaat0000o

Page104of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.