Chronican killing snakes and climbing the ladders

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Finance
Chronican killing snakes and climbing the ladders

JOHN DURIE
1,344 words
25 January 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
1 - All-round Country
21
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

ANZ'S $70 million remediation payments to home loan customers this week highlights the
extraordinarily fine line the banks walk between delivering shareholder returns, corporate reputations
and good customer relations.

ANZ's Phil Chronican rightly describes it as a game of snakes and ladders in which a lot of effort is
spent inching higher before something intervenes and reputations are slashed.

This week Westpac took deserved pride in topping the Davos global sustainability index, beating all
companies in the western world.

ANZ was in 19th place, in addition to its long reign as the most sustainable bank at the top of the
Dow Jones Sustainability

Continued on Page 32

Continued from Page 21

Index. CBA was next on the Australian list at 25, ahead of Stockland at 32 and Wesfarmers at 92.

In other words, as much as bank bashing is a national pastime, three of the five Australian
companies to make the Davos list were banks.

Holding No 1 spot, as Westpac is, is obviously great news but also becomes a point of attack as ANZ
and others have found with corporate loans.
CLSA estimates this year ANZ will make $6.8 billion, which puts the $70m in remediation into some
context, as does the tax-deductible $5m cost of the program.

Both the $5m cost and the $70m in remediation will involve some tax benefits because the excess
charges in years past meant the bank paid more tax than it should have.

A cynic would look at the bank's extraordinary effort in devoting 12 full-time staff for nearly four years,
plus the use of PwC as outside auditors -- not its own lifelong auditors KPMG -- to recover $70m in
lost company money and wonder why bother.

After all, most people no doubt suspect the bank is ripping them off, and this news just goes to show
what could be happening. And why customers need to watch the bank carefully.

The reverse is the case. Chronican and his team deserve the highest praise for their actions and their
commitment to customers.

Customer satisfaction is a key focus for all the banks, with the obvious hope that happy customers
mean more profits and happy shareholders.

Page207of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Former CBA boss Ralph Norris pushed that line long and hard and successfully transformed the
bank's culture, which incumbent Ian Narev is pushing further.

The Roy Morgan consumer banking satisfaction numbers show all the banks now above 80 per cent,
with CBA in the lead followed by NAB, Westpac and ANZ at 80.3 per cent.

Customer-satisfaction numbers show a high correlation to the level and success of the bank's
advertising campaign, so happy advertisements do wonders for the surveys but may not always the
profit figures.

Like any organisation employing large numbers, a bank's image is also key in attracting the right staff
who in turn help customers, which also explains why banks push their brand and sustainability
credentials hard.

None of this will stop the banks being a political football and nor should it because, as former
treasurer Paul Keating often observes, they are the most protected species in the land.

But in this case, as with the Bank of Queensland example last year, the banks are actually doing the
right thing and deserve credit.

Good Lord
AMID all the noise this week, Warrnambool Cheese & Butter boss David Lord disclosed he has
acquired 129,286 shares as part of his performance pay, which means he will collect $1.2m when
accepting the Saputo offer.

Lino Saputo Jr has also confirmed that as he has no management in the country the local brass will
keep the WCB team in place.

Helou v West

THERE is no value to be gained from a sleeping national champion, which explains why the Saputo
cheese win is good for the country because it has helped waken the giant -- Murray Goulburn .

After about 30 months at Murray Goulburn 's helm, Gary Helou didn't need any waking up, but a new
player on his stage has him fired up even more.
Next week Peter West takes the helm at Lion Dairy with the job of trying to make some money from
its assets, which have already been written down in value from $3.7bn to $1.5bn. West will try to
make some sense from the business, which employs about 3200 people and has about $2.5bn in
annual revenues.
An experienced global food hand, his appointment shows the company is not about to throw in the
towel tomorrow.

Helou, among others, would love to pick up the dregs when and if Kirin sees the light and rationalises
its commodity milk business.
Parent company Kirin is like many Japanese giants, which means it is not afraid of a few shots and
is not about to cut and run in a hurry.

Expect Helou to make West's job as difficult as possible; and in the scheme of things this is a much
bigger game than the WCB fight.
WCB controls one-tenth of Australian milk product, Bega about 0.7 per cent, Lion 18 per cent,
Fonterra 20 per cent and Murray Goulburn about 33 per cent.
Overall milk production of about 9.2 billion litres has basically stood still for the past decade and is
down from a peak of 11.3 billion litres in 2001.
If dairy is going to be the next iron ore to fuel Australia's fortunes as the food bowl of Asia it would
help if we could manage to grow it out a touch.

There are three key value-added products in which Australia has underperformed big-time through
lack of investment: nutritional powders, long-life milk and cheese.
Lino Saputo Jr may have won the battle for one-tenth of Australia's milk supply but he will need to
invest to exploit any gain. As a guide, full-cream milk sells at about $5000 a tonne and infant formula
between $10,000 and $15,000 a tonne.

Page208of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Murray Goulburn collects about $52m in profit on its WCB stake and in the next few months will raise
about $400m from its revamped capital structure.
This money will be spent on revamping operations, including a new 100,000-tonne drying plant at
Koroit, new milk processing plants for the Coles contract and the like.

Competition will help boost output and Helou is intent on boosting the value added output from
Australia.
This includes more involvement at the consumer end of the cheese business, exploiting his 80 per
cent share of the long-life milk market and working closer with the global leaders in so-called
pharmaceutical quality milk powder.

The global market is led by the likes of Danone , an MG yoghurt joint venture partner, which is
presently in dispute with Fonterra over Chinese exports.

The WCB shareholders may be cashing in but the big game is only just starting.

ACCC in crosshairs

THIS column worries when independent regulators like the Australian Competition & Consumer
Commission are under fire for overspending because it raises the chance that their independence will
be compromised and their plans may be curtailed.

Outgoing chief Brian Cassidy knows the importance of good public administration more than most
and talk is already rife of more top-level departures .

Some suggest it ludicrous that the ACCC has chief executive (Cassidy) and two deputies (Mark
Pearson and Rayne de Gruchy).

In a paper last month, barrister Michael Terceiro lambasted the ACCC, noting it was top heavy and
with a senior executive staff of 54 people at a total cost of $17.8m or $329,053 -- well paid by public
service standards.

Performance pay added another $1.9m or $13,800 per staff member, and $8.8m was spent on
external consultants. The case for action seems clear and one can only hope it happens without
compromising the quality and independence of the ACCC. The official word is the issues are being
progressed with government and everything is under control.

wsfrm : Wesfarmers Ltd
i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking | ifinal : Financial Services |
i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcrim : Crime/Courts | reqrbc : Suggested Reading Banking/Credit
| gcat : Political/General News | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested
Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140124ea1p00048

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page209of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.