Gallagher announces plans to enter China jv and acquires in Australia

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Gallagher announces plans to enter China jv and acquires in Australia

661 words
10 December 2014
Insurance Newslink
INNEWS
English
Copyright 2014. Only Strategic Limited.

Arthur J. Gallagher has announced plans to enter the Chinese market after the company signed a joint
venture agreement with Jiang Tai Insurance Brokers to establish a new Shanghai-based operation,
subject to regulatory approval. The agreement sees Gallagher take a 24.9% share ownership. Other
terms of the transaction were not disclosed.

Expected to launch in the first half of 2015, the new operation, trading as Jiang Tai Re, will focus on
reinsurance and specialty lines. Jiang Tai’s current president Frank Lu will lead the 25-strong team of
experienced, technical insurance professionals.

Understood to be the first joint venture insurance broker launched in the China(Shanghai) Pilot Free
Trade Zone, the partnership represents an auspicious and pioneering move for both parties, reflective of
their ambition to facilitate diverse economic growth on an international scale.
With this opportunity to develop the Chinese specialty insurance market, Gallagher will bring its specialty
and reinsurance expertise and intellectual capital, as well as extensive captive management experience
from within the wider group, to the new venture while Jiang Tai will gain a global footprint from partnering
with Gallagher.
Vyvienne Wade, International Commercial director at Arthur J. Gallagher, comments “Our international
expansion strategy is to introduce Gallagher’s expertise and capabilities into stable and emerging
economies-and the opportunity rarely gets larger or more rapidly emerging than China. But we were only
prepared to take this ambitious step with the right partner. As one of China’s largest insurance brokers
with a formidable reputation, incredibly strong client relationships and cultural values aligned to our own,
Jiang Tai was the natural choice. It is an honour to partner with such highly regarded professionals as
chairman Shen and president Lu as they look to expand their company’s interests on the international
stage.

We have spent many months building a trusted relationship, learning about our complementary expertise
and exploring in detail how we can best bring together our inherent strengths to create a powerful new
specialty and reinsurance broker to support Chinese businesses as they expand and develop on a global
scale.”

Speaking of the decision to partner with Arthur J. Gallagher, Shen said “This is an investment we have
been planning for some time and it has been of critical importance to choose a partner that has a strong
cultural fit with our own. Our delegation has spent a lot of time with the teams at Arthur J. Gallagher &
Co., both at the company’s international division base in London and its global headquarters in the US,
which clearly showed our two organisations enjoy the same ethos and share the same values. We look
forward to a strong and successful partnership as Jiang Tai Re.”

Gallagher has also announced the acquisition of Blue Holdings based in Brisbane, Australia. Terms of the
transaction were not disclosed.
Established in 2005, Blue Holdings is an insurance broker and risk management services firm that
provides retail property/casualty and insolvency insurance products and services primarily for its
middle-market clients throughout Australia. They also specialize in coverages for the construction,
transportation, engineering, mining and professional services industries. Blue's ceo Richard Smith and his
associates will continue to operate from their Brisbane, Perth, Sydney, Melbourne and Townsville
locations under the direction of Andrew Godden, head of Gallagher's Australian brokerage operation.

Page214of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."Blue is a good example of how we continue to find new acquisition partners that fit well within our
international platforms," said J. Patrick Gallagher, Jr., chairman, president and ceo. "Its strong presence
will add to our national brokerage footprint and its national insolvency practice will be a wonderful new
niche specialization for us. Blue will be an excellent complement to our Australian operations."

Gallagher has also acquired Instrat Insurance Brokers located in Clayton North, Victoria, Australia. Terms
of the transaction were not disclosed.

This article is supplied by Only Strategic Financial Newslink (www.onlystrategic.com)

IN
NS

RE

i82 : Insurance | ifinal : Financial Services
c184 : Joint Ventures | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin
: C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | brisbn : Brisbane | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | queensl : Queensland

IPD Mergers & Acquisitions
PUB Shillito Market Intelligence Ltd
AN

Document INNEWS0020141210eaca0000h

Page215of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.