While superpowers act on climate, Australia and India poised to double down on coal

by Paddy Manning

HD While superpowers act on climate, Australia and India poised to double down on coal
BY
WC 1,317 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

13 November 2014
Crikey
CRIKAU
English
(c) Copyright 2014 Private Media Partners Pty. Ltd. All Right Reserved.

TD

Indian company Adani is the last man standing in the Galilee Basin — and it looks like approval for a giant
mine there is all but assured.
Paddy Manning interviews Indian activist Debi Goenka about the case against Adani’s Carmichael coal
mine.

It will be strange optics if, only days after China and the United States unveiled a historic climate deal,
India and Australia proclaim their commitment to building the biggest coal mine in the southern
hemisphere.

Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi will arrive in Australia tomorrow ahead of the weekend’s G20
leaders summit in Brisbane, and he will address Australian Parliament on Monday. Last week Queensland
Premier Campbell Newman hinted that Modi was likely to make a major announcement about Indian
power giant Adani’s Carmichael project, which will open up the Galilee Basin, a whole new thermal coal
province.

Adani is tight-lipped, but environment sources fear the announcement could confirm Adani as “first mover”
in the Galilee — giving the company an open-ended holiday from state coal royalties  — or go further and
abolish any appeal rights against the project.

Adani is the last man standing in the Galilee, and Newman is on a veritable crusade to ensure the $16
billion project, including a 400-kilometre rail line and new export terminal at Abbot Point, is developed as
soon as possible.
There were three possible players in the Galilee Basin, but Clive Palmer’s Waratah Coal project
effectively collapsed two years ago after Newman rejected his preferred rail corridor to get the coal to the
coast — a dispute that fueled formation of the Palmer United Party.
The second most likely, Gina Rinehart’s partnership with another Indian company, GVK, has been
looking shakier all year.  Last week Hancock wrote off $641 million after GVK missed the final tranche
$560 million payment it was to make to complete the purchase of its 79% stake in the Alpha projects in
the Galillee, sold for $1.2 billion in 2011. Hancock may still hope to collect the money from GVK; Rinehart
is pals with founder Krishna Reddy and dragged Coalition frontbenchers Barnaby Joyce and Julie Bishop
over to his daughter’s wedding. The diminishing iron ore heiress, battling her children in court and a
plunging iron ore price, is in no position to walk away from half a billion dollars. But even Rinehart’s
famous appetite for litigation will not help if her Indian partner goes broke. What looked like a savvy,
top-of-the-market coal deal has turned out to be nothing of the sort. GVK’s partner in the rail component
of the Galilee, Aurizon, the former QR National, acknowledged in October that any go-ahead was years
away. Among the many climate questions hurled at chairman John Prescott, the former BHP chief
presiding over his last Aurizon AGM in Perth yesterday, was a pointed reference to the corruption charges
against GVK and Reddy. Prescott admitted neither he nor Aurizon chief Lance Hockridge knew anything
about it.

That leaves Adani, which has secured almost all the necessary planning approvals — state and
federal — to build the Carmichael mine but now has to raise the money. To do that, Adani is hoping to
offload a stake in the existing coal terminal it bought for $2 billion at Abbot Point in 2011 — outbidding an
extremely over-geared Nathan Tinkler — in another top-of-the-market deal.

Page21of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Funding the Carmichael project is not going to be easy with coal prices depressed and eight global
investment banks already indicating they will not fund the project. Adani said in a statement those banks
weren’t asked to fund the project — or weren’t in greenfield project finance anyway — and points to the new
China-backed Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank as a possible source of funding for coal-based
energy projects.

Adani certainly won’t be able to fund it alone; this week it reported widening losses in the September
quarter from subsidiary Adani Power (which will buy the coal from Queensland) — although parent Adani
Enterprises, which reported overnight, is profitable. Adani Power has lost money for the last three years,
and its balance sheet is looking “ridiculously” stretched according to analysis by Tim Buckley of the
Institute for Energy Economics & Financial Analysis, with seven times more debt than equity.  Adani says
those debt levels are irrelevant, as the Indian entities won’t be called on to fund Carmichael, and anyway
all the money’s not needed up-front. Australian subsidiary Adani Mining’s latest accounts showed $1
billion in debt and a net deficiency of assets, which Buckley says underlines the question: where on earth
will the money to develop this mega-project come from? Korea’s deep-pocketed steelmaker POSCO has
taken a small minority stake in the $3 billion rail component, but that still leaves billions to raise.

Which brings us to one fat, buzzing fly in the soup: a five-week case set down in the Land Court for
March, that threatens to blow out the project timetable. Possibly the last of the merits review appeals to be
heard in Queensland after the Newman government abolished appeal rights, the case will be the
culmination of years of work by the environmental movement to frustrate and oppose new coal projects.
Remember the hysteria whipped up around the Greenpeace anti-coal strategy leaked to The Australian
Financial Review in 2012? It has come to this: no case will prove more important than the Carmichael
case. The judge, Land Court president Carmel MacDonald, previously rejected climate change arguments
against Xstrata’s now-shelved Wandoan mine in 2012.

There are two objectors to Carmichael. Leading the case is local green group Land Services Coast and
Country, represented by Queensland’s Environment Defenders Office. The EDO’s lawyer Sean Ryan told
Crikey this would be “biggest case we’ve ever run”. The other objector is an Indian NGO, the
Conservation Action Trust — the first foreigner to take legal action in Australia against a development
proposal. I interviewed CAT director Debi Goenka when he visited Australia to speak at a conference. The
Land Court does not have rules of standing, which would ordinarily preclude a foreigner taking court
action here. Anyone who objects to a proposal, as CAT did, can appeal the approval. CAT’s submission is
based on objections to Adani’s environmental track record in India, a relevant consideration to the court’s
consideration. There has been no strike out motion from Adani.

The odds are certainly against the objectors, and not only financially. Adani has the Queensland
government on side. Recently Newman ordered the North Queensland Bulk Ports clearing work to start at
the site where spoil will be dumped from dredging to make room for Abbot Point’s new coal
terminal — even before the dredging has received final approval.
The key will be whether Modi’s government wants to rely on Australian coal for its development, or would
prefer to encourage development of India’s own coal resources. Last week, at a World Economic Forum
in India, Energy Minister Piyush Goyal spoke on an hour-long panel and, while he mentioned doubling
India’s coal production by 2019, did not once mention coal imports, let alone Australia. In fact overnight
Goyal canvassed ending India’s coal imports altogether. Instead, much of the session on “Lighting India”
was devoted to renewables. Also on the WEF panel was a representative of the Rockefeller Foundation,
which recently announced it would divest from fossil fuels entirely and is funding development of a
thousand mini-grids in rural India. That’s tackling energy poverty, in a way the coal industry talks about
(but never actually does).

How that squares with Modi’s forthcoming announcement will be interesting to see.

http://www.crikey.com.au/?p=467512

RF
CO qudpc : Queensland Department of the Premier and Cabinet | adexns : Adani Enterprises Ltd | dorval :

IN

RE

Aurizon Mines Ltd | hclamn : Hecla Mining Co
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources |
ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | igoldm : Gold Ore Mining | imet : Mining/Quarrying
austr : Australia | india : India | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS
Countries | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | indsubz : Indian
Subcontinent | sasiaz : Southern Asia

PUB Private Media Partners Pty Ltd.
AN

Document CRIKAU0020141113eabd0000e

Page22of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.