Mitsui sees light at end of downturn

The Australian

HD Mitsui sees light at end of downturn
CR
WC 744 words
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

26 September 2014
00:00
theAustralian.com.au
NLAUSW
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

TD

JAPANESE trading house Mitsui is firmly backing the expansion of high-quality iron ore and coal projects
in Australia.
Mitsui Australia — which has equity stakes in some of BHP and Rio Tinto’s blue-chip mineral assets —
has told The Australian that price falls were more about excess supply than waning demand and the
market would correct within five years or so as uncompetitive suppliers exited the market.

“The downturn will not continue forever,” Mitsui Australia chairman and chief executive Yasushi Takahashi
said, flagging a rebound in prices around 2018.
He said Mitsui, which has invested $14 billion in Australian coal and iron ore ventures over the past 10
years, was strongly backing the expansion of brownfield operations with partners Rio Tinto and BHP
Billiton in the Pilbara. He said expansions at Cape Lambert and Jimblebar were “examples of our
eagerness in mining investment here even in this period”.
His comments come as iron ore this week hit a five-year low, falling below $US80 a tonne, while coal
prices have halved since 2011.

Mr Takahashi urged Australian miners to focus on productivity gains to boost their competitiveness with
operations in Africa and other emerging regions. “It is inconvenient but a truth that Australia’s high wages
are not supported by equally high productivity,’’ he said.
Mr Takahashi said the cost of labour per tonne of coal produced was more than 20 per cent in Australia
compared with 10 per cent in competing producer nations.

He said miners could drive productivity by expanding their fleets of Komatsu driverless trucks — currently
in operation on Rio’s mines — and using local gas instead of imported diesel in locomotive and vehicle
fleets and for power generation.
“The mining industry here in Australia is one of the biggest diesel consumers and diesel prices here are
not necessarily competitive,’’ he said.

“If we change to a cheaper or more competitive fuel source, like gas, we may be able to have a great cost
reduction process.

“In my opinion we (Mitsui) are in the closest position to enhance that because we have a gas generation
project here, we have mining interests and we are the 40 per cent owner of Komatsu (Australia) and we
have gas pipeline technology.”
Mr Takahashi said wage growth in mining in Australia had moderated and he was not concerned about
wage levels if productivity was high.

“I don’t basically care about the level of the wage itself,’’ he said. “The only concern is that if we are going
to receive a high wage it has to be justified with identically high productivity.

“As long as we can enjoy double productivity, compared to the competing countries, we can enjoy
receiving double pay — that’s fine.”

Page66of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mr Takahashi — who was recently made a member of Trade Minister Andrew Robb’s trade and
investment advisory committee — urged people to take a long-term view saying cycles in mining were
long and investors needed to roll with the punches. “Mitsui always takes a long-term view,’’ he said.

“We cannot change philosophy very frequently — in the range of one, or two or five years. It is too short.”
He remains confident in the industry’s longer-term future saying demand from China would remain strong.
“I don’t think the price drop trend will last forever. What we can do is to enhance the competitiveness and
strength of the mine operations we are involved in together with our trustworthy operator partners,’’ he
said.
“Even in this depressed price period competitive suppliers of iron ore and coal are still receiving further
demand.

“Probably some point in the latter half of the 2010s — 2018, 2017 … maybe 2020 — some rebalancing of
the supply demand situation will happen.”
He said steel consumption per capita in China would track GDP per capita right up to $15,000 or $20,000
and China was currently at about $7000 per capita GDP.

“The peak period in the per capita consumption of steel is when that country reaches the level of a
developed country,” he said. “They have much more room to go. “Until China is a developed country they
will keep consuming steel in a very intensive manner.”
Mr Takahashi, who spoke yesterday at the IMARC international mining conference in Melbourne, said the
company was actively eyeing new equity stakes or investments in grain exports eyeing a surge in
shipments to ASEAN nations and to Japan.

CO craaus : Rio Tinto Ltd | mtsui : Mitsui & Co Ltd | rtz : Rio Tinto PLC
IN

i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs :
Business/Consumer Services
gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

NS
RE
PUB News Ltd.
AN

Document NLAUSW0020140925ea9p000jl

Page67of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.