RWE (CM) Alderon Implements Cash Preservation Program

HD
WC 440 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

RWE (CM) Alderon Implements Cash Preservation Program

10 December 2014
Resources News (RWE)
RESNEW
English
Copyright 2014 RWE Australian Business News Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved.

TD

RWE (CM) Alderon Implements Cash Preservation Program
Sydney - Wednesday - December 10 (RWE) - Alderon Iron Ore Corp [TSX:ADV][NYSE MKT:AXX]
reports that it has implemented a comprehensive cash preservation program that will allow the company
to maintain a healthy working capital position into 2017 without the need to access equity or debt
financing during the intervening period, aside from the financing required to commence construction at the
Kami Iron Ore Project.

Measures associated with this program include a number of voluntary vendor payment deferrals and relief
from debt servicing requirements such as those outlined in the transaction with Liberty Metals & Mining
Holdings, LLC described below, and workforce reductions.
The company has kept its core team of executives intact which will allow it to continue to advance the
Kami Project construction financing efforts and to commence construction in a rapid and seamless
manner once such financing has been obtained.

"These cost savings measures do not mean we are now on care and maintenance," says Mark Morabito,
Executive Chairman of Alderon.
"We are working more closely than ever with our partner Hebei Iron and Steel on increasing Chinese
participation in the project in order to increase access to available capital from China.
Earlier this year, The China National Development and Reform Commission said Chinese steelmakers
should keep building up stakes in global iron-ore assets in the interests of China's strategic security and
"speaking rights," or influence, in global trade.
China's ore imports rose 10% in 2013 to a record 819 million metric tons, according to customs data.
The NDRC also said that China's iron-ore demand will still rise, its reliance on imports won't change, and
the degree of monopoly in global iron-ore resources will still keep increasing.
Mr Morabito adds, "this continuing commitment from our Chinese partners under NDRC mandate gives
us confidence that we will be able move the Kami project into construction.

One of the critical payment deferrals is in regards to the loan agreement that Alderon and its affiliate, The
Kami Mine Limited Partnership, previously entered into with LMM for an amount of $22 million.

The LMM Loan has interest payable semi-annually on June 30 and December 31 of each year at a rate of
8% per annum.

The principal and interest amounts of the LMM Loan are convertible into common shares of Alderon.

LMM has agreed to defer the next two interest payments due under the LMM Loan.

These payments total $1,795,200 with $880,000 payable on December 31, 2014 and $915,200 payable
on June 30, 2015.

ENDS

CO pacsue : Alderon Iron Ore Corp.

Page201of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS

i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i2111 : Iron Ore
Mining
cnatrd : Natural Reserves/Resources Discovery | c24 : Capacity/Facilities | ccat : Corporate/Industrial
News
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB RWE Australian Business News Pty Ltd
AN

Document RESNEW0020141210eaca0004f

Page202of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.