Coldstream duo's brewing gold

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Enterprise
Coldstream duo's brewing gold

Louis White
614 words
25 November 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
38
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

They were born two weeks apart in the same hospital, attended the same kindergarten at age four and
became best friends. Now at the age of 45 they are partners in a brewery turning over in excess of
$10 million a year.

Sound like the perfect friendship? Well, it probably is. Rohan Peters and Mike Basset are partners in
Coldstream Brewery, established in 2007 with other friends, which exports 100 per cent apple cider and
their own beers to Hong Kong, Taiwan and Singapore, with mainland China next on the list.

Located in the Yarra Valley, Victoria, the two best mates came up with the idea while travelling through
Europe back in the mid-1990s. "We worked in bars and found that we really liked European beer and
cider," Peters says. "It was very different from what we had in Australia and we thought there could be a
market back home, especially when it came to brewing our own cider.

"Back then in Europe, the cider market was around 10 per cent of alcohol consumption, while in
Australia it wouldn't even have been 1 per cent. We thought if we could get the cider right, it would be
an opportunity to first sell it in Australia and then the world."

Peters and Basset returned to their day jobs once back in Australia; Peters working in IT and Basset a
vet. The idea brewed in their mind until they were able to make the right cider and find the ideal land to
build their brewery.
"We thought the Yarra Valley was great for wine but it was missing a brewery," Peters says. "Guys like
to have a beer. We found this land on Maroondah Highway, Coldstream – the entry to the Yarra Valley.
It took three years to get the brewery up and running; we purchased a brewery that had shut down in
New Zealand and had it transported to Victoria." According to IBISWorld's Cider Production in Australia,
released in July 2014, Australians will spend $1 billion on cider this financial year. Sales of cider grew
at an annualised 33.9 per cent over the past five years, with annualised growth of 21.5 per cent forecast
for the five years to 2019-20. Apple cider accounts for 75 per cent of industry revenue.

Over the same five-year period, beer sales grew at only 0.5 per cent and in the next five years is
expected to have annualised sales growth of 1.5 per cent. Wine sales expect to grow at 5.1 per cent.
"We sell 100,000 litres a month, which equates to 15,000 cases a month of cider and beer," Peters
says.

"Approximately 90 per cent of ciders are concentrated, whereas ours are 100 per cent natural made
from apples. We buy from local farms so we support local industries." The products are sold in Dan
Murphy's and BWS and have been the official cider of the Australian Grand Prix and Moto GP for three
years now."The business just keeps growing, with overseas buyers approaching us," Basset says.

Basset splits his time between his veterinary practice and the brewery. Unlike Peters, who quit his IT
job in 2010, Basset doesn't see the need to be at the brewery full time. "Since we bought, the other
partners out four years ago, there is certainly more work involved." Basset says they have already had

Page72of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.offers from potential suitors but they have no desire to sell the business. "Austrade has helped us out
with contacts and meetings, but if we can crack the mainland China market that will be huge."

IN

RE
PUB
AN

i427 : Brewing | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | ialco : Alcoholic Beverages/Drinks | ibevrge :
Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141124eabp0002b

Page73of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.