Digging beneath China's interest in Australian iron ore projects

John Rice, Associate Professor in Strategic Management at Griffith University; Nigel Martin, Lecturer,
College of Business and Economics at Australian National University

Digging beneath China 's interest in Australian iron ore projects

HD
BY

WC 1,140 words
PD
9 May 2014
SN
The Conversation
SC
CONVAU
LA
English
CY
Copyright 2014. The Conservation Media Group.
LP

TD

The Australian iron ore industry is no place for the faint hearted. On April 11, Padbury Mining
spectacularly announced billions in funding (reportedly backed by Chinese investors) to develop the
Oakajee Port north of Geraldton in Western Australia’s mid-west. This infrastructure would open up
development of massive magnetite iron ore deposits in the State’s mid-west, bypassing the bottleneck at
existing port and rail facilities at Geraldton. Even more spectacularly, by April 30 Padbury announced it
was all off.

Clive Palmer’s Sino Iron Chinese partners (CITIC) were no doubt miffed by his suggestions in February
that he was defending Australian firms from being “raped and disrespected by foreign-owned companies”.
His joint venture relationship with Chinese State owned CITIC has been strained by cost overruns
associated with the processing of low-grade magnetite into shippable ores at the mine site in the Pilbara.
These events have been unfolding in the context of some big moves in the price of iron ore. The price for
62% Fe iron ore delivered to the Port of Tianjin peaked at more than US$180 per tonne in late 2010 –
during a Chinese Government economic stimulus program that required large amounts of steel. Since
then the iron ore price has declined to around US$103 per tonne. While speculating on the future of
commodity prices is little more than guesswork, the trend is clearly downward.
China’s agenda
Last week Chinese state-owned Baosteel announced a surprise takeover offer for Aquila Resources (in
conjunction with Aurizon as a junior partner). It is the latest of many investments in Australian iron ore by
Chinese investors, most with close ties to the Chinese government. These investments are welcome, as
the Australian economy’s structural shortage of capital requires such foreign investment. However, it’s
worth pondering why there is such interest in Australia’s iron ore industry by China, and what this might
mean for the future.
China’s steel mills – mostly state owned - purchase around 70% of the world’s traded iron ore. China is
expected to import 850 million tonnes of iron ore in 2014. To put this into context, Australia is expected
to produce 610 million tonnes in 2013-14. The vast majority of Australia’s production is from the Pilbara
region of Western Australia, and most is “direct shipping ore” (DSO) – able to be dug up and shipped
without processing.

In essence, the Pilbara has plenty of high quality ores that are cheap to mine and require little processing.
Many of the large new projects - for example Padbury’s - however are based on low grade magnetite ores
that require significant and costly processing.
China is keen to see production grow, both from new DSO deposits and from processed (or beneficiated)
magnetite. The reason for this is simple. For every US$10 per tonne drop in the iron ore price, the
Chinese economy saves US$8.5 billion. The US$70 ore price decline since 2010 is thus saving China
more than US$40 billion per year on current import quantities.
Is it too far-fetched to link these issues? Are Chinese state investors investing in new production primarily
to lower prices, rather than to develop profitable mining operations?

Prices matter
The demand for iron ore is highly inelastic – at current prices iron ore accounts for around one quarter of
the final value of steel, but the demand for steel is determined primarily by demand from the construction,

Page256of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.infrastructure and manufacturing sectors. As a material with few substitutes, the consumers of steel tend
to demand steel based on their need, rather than its price.

One aspect of free market economics that even nominal Communists understand is that increasing supply
in markets with inelastic demand can in fact reduce overall revenues – in fact can lead to a situation
where buyers get more of the product for less of their money. As such, upstream investment in
unprofitable production can make economic sense in a convoluted manner.

A signal that this might be occurring would be new production being developed that would never be
considered by rational investors, where the expected returns just don’t justify the risks. One such
investment was Clive Palmer’s Sino Iron joint venture development. Original estimates suggested that this
operation would require US$2.5 billion to bring to operation, although costs ended up being closer to
US$10 billion.
As Palmer’s ores require on-site processing prior to dispatch to China, ongoing operational costs are far
higher than other Pilbara DSO operations. These costs, as well as transport and logistics, are perhaps as
high as or higher than prevailing market prices. Even ignoring the requirement to repay the billions in
“sunk’"capital investment, this project looks problematic. It would be very unlikely to be developed today.
The Sino Iron project, however, is old news, and problems there have been a long time coming. Is there
evidence of more recent investments, with high operational and investment risks, that just don’t make
economic sense?

Watch what happens at Oakajee

To answer this, we can look to what happens next in Western Australia’s mid-west. While the region east
of Geraldton has plenty of direct shipping ores, it has vastly more lower quality magnetite. One big
mid-west producer, Gindalbie Mining, has been making whopping losses mining and processing its vast
deposit of low quality magnetite at Karara. Western Australia has even granted the company royalty relief
- a sure sign of dire financial problems.
At current low world prices, mining and processing magnetite doesn’t make a lot of sense. This will
become even more true as massive new deposits come on stream, including Simandou in Guinea (West
Africa), which could one day rival the Pilbara.
So if the Oakajee Port does get the go ahead in the near future, backed with Chinese funding as Premier
Colin Barnett has predicted, that will be an ominous sign.
Should Australia care if Chinese state-owned enterprises undertake such investments? The Western
Australian government will get their royalties and jobs will be created. Surely all development is good
development?

Australia should almost certainly care. Governments need to build infrastructure that may become idle in
future as supplies of ores from new regions come on stream. Australians will be dislocated as they
relocate for jobs that are mothballed as high cost operations are closed. In short - there will be costs, and
these costs will be borne widely.

Nil.
John Rice does not work for, consult to, own shares in or receive funding from any company or
organisation that would benefit from this article, and has no relevant affiliations.

CO rivgol : Padbury Mining Limited
IN

NS
RE

i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | i22 : Primary Metals |
ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i2112 : Gold Ore/Silver Ore Mining
gcat : Political/General News
china : China | austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries |
dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

PUB The Conversation Media Group Limited
AN

Document CONVAU0020140509ea5900002

Page257of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.