Fund in appeal at bid for Yancoal

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Fund in appeal at bid for Yancoal

SARAH-JANE TASKER, TAKEOVERS
366 words
25 November 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
20
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

YANCOAL Australia’s minority shareholder, Senrigan Capital, has referred a debt deal that could give
the miner’s Chinese parent full control of the company to the Takeovers Panel.
The panel said yesterday it had received an application from the Hong Kong-based hedge fund and its
founder and chief investment officer, Nicholas Taylor.

Earlier this month Yancoal announced a $US2.3 billion ($2.6bn) debt deal that would see 78 per cent
shareholder Yanzhou take on $US1.8bn of the subordinated capital note offer.

Under the offer, open to all shareholders, Yancoal will issue 2.32112 subordinated capital notes for
every 100 Yancoal shares held. The notes will be treated as equity.

If the minority shareholders shun the offer, Yanzhou could increase its holding to around 98.8 per cent
of Yancoal.
Senrigan, which has less than a 0.6 per cent stake in Yancoal, complained that the deal would enable
Yanzhou to convert its subordinated capital notes into equity at depressed prices “so as to permit the
compulsory acquisition of minorities cheaply”.

The hedge fund requested that the offer not go ahead until the conclusion of panel proceedings but it
also sought, as an alternative, that the rights offer be made subject to shareholder approval.

The Takeovers Panel said a sitting panel had not been appointed at this stage and no decision had
been made whether to conduct proceedings.

“The panel makes no comment on the merits of the application,” the panel’s statement said.

A spokesman for Yancoal said he believed that the application had no merit. “The offer of subordinated
capital notes represents the most attractive capital raising option for shareholders as a whole and the
overall transaction offers Yancoal a number of other significant benefits.” Hong Kong commodities
trader Noble Group has a 13.8 per cent stake in Yancoal and is understood to not be happy with the
offer.If Noble Group, which also has a marketing agreement with Yancoal, does not take up the offer, it
will be diluted to a 0.7 per cent holding in one of Australia’s largest listed pure coal plays.

CO

IN
NS
RE
PUB

yaptyl : Yancoal Australia Limited | yankua : Yankuang (Group) Corp | ynzmn : Yanzhou Coal Mining
Co Ltd
i112 : Coal Mining Support Activities | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.

Page60of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AN

Document AUSTLN0020141124eabp0002p

Page61of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.