Reducing Its Stake

CLM
SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

DEALBOOK
Business/Financial Desk; SECTB
Reducing Its Stake

By NEIL GOUGH
426 words
18 June 2014
The New York Times
NYTF
Late Edition - Final
9
English
Copyright 2014 The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.

HONG KONG -- Royal Dutch Shell said on Tuesday that it would offload the majority of its stake in
Woodside Petroleum, Australia's biggest independent oil and natural gas producer, in a deal worth
$5.7 billion.
Shell is selling a 19 percent stake in the Australian company, and its holding will drop to a maximum
of 4.5 percent after the deal, from 23.1 percent.

In a two-part transaction, Woodside will buy back 78.3 million of its shares from Shell, representing a
9.5 percent stake, at a price of 36.49 Australian dollars per share, or $34.28. That represents a
discount of about 15 percent to the closing price of Woodside's shares on Monday, at 42.85 dollars
apiece.
In the second part of the deal, Shell will unload an additional 78.3 million shares via an underwritten
share sale to institutional investors, at a price of 41.35 dollars per share -- a 3.5 percent discount to
the close on Monday. The underwritten share sale is expected to be completed by Wednesday, when
Woodside's stock is scheduled to resume trading in Sydney, Australia.

The deal removes an uncertainty about Shell's shareholding in Woodside that has persisted since it
first began reducing its stake in 2010, when it sold off a stake of 10 percent in the Australian
company in a $3.3 billion deal. Beyond its equity investment in Woodside, Shell has considerable
investments in Australia's oil and gas sector, including joint ventures with Woodside, which are not
expected to be affected by the deal.

''Today's announcement is part of our drive to improve Shell's capital efficiency and to focus our
Australia growth in directly owned assets,'' Shell's chief executive, Ben van Beurden, said Tuesday in
a statement. ''It doesn't change our view of Australia as an important player on the global energy
stage, or Shell's central role in the country's energy industry.''

Woodside's buyback remains subject to shareholder approval. In a separate statement on Tuesday,
Woodside's chief executive, Peter Coleman, described the two-part deal as an ''efficient and
disciplined use of capital'' that ''creates value for all our shareholders.''

''The combined transaction will also increase our liquidity in the market and resolve the uncertainty in
relation to Shell's shareholding that has existed for several years,'' Mr. Coleman added.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

CO
IN

wodpet : Woodside Petroleum Ltd | rnlp : Royal Dutch Shell PLC
i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1 : Energy | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural
Gas/Oil Extraction

Page35of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

RE
IPD
PUB
AN

c18 : Ownership Changes | ncolu : Columns | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial
News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Business/Financial Desk
The New York Times Company
Document NYTF000020140618ea6i0004p

Page36of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.