Trade deal the key

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Trade deal the key

Simone Smith
447 words
6 August 2014
Weekly Times
HERWEK
WeeklyTimes
78
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Australia’s producers are ready to lift their game seeking world markets, writes Simone Smith
THE Australian dairy industry has taken responsibility for improving its international competitiveness
and needs Federal Government support with favourable trade deals and regulation.

That’s according to United Dairyfarmers of Victoria president Tyran Jones, who said more than $1
billion in investment had flowed into dairy manufacturing recently and unlocking the confidence in the
farm sector would help increase money flowing into the sector and promote growth.
He said there were different ways the Government could help the industry, such as a Chinese free trade
agreement.
A report from consulting firmMcKinsey & Company commissioned by the Business Council of
Australia , which was released last week, said Australian dairy could be one of the industries that would
help Australia prosper into the future.
Improving the Australian dairy industry’s competitiveness would be the key to this and the report drew
comparisons between the local and New Zealand industries.

It referred to how the Kiwis designed their industry’s structure to allow them to compete internationally
as well as to the scale of New Zealand dairy farms and processing compared to Australia and the
benefits it had in the world market due to trade deals.
“New Zealand very deliberately enabled its dairy processors to achieve scale and capture global export
share,” the report said.
“The Dairy Industry Restructuring Act allowed the two largest dairy co-operatives to merge to form
Fonterra. The Act was passed to increase international competitiveness, but also included safeguards to
prevent abuse of monopoly power in the domestic market.
“Fonterra now controls about 95 per cent of milk production in New Zealand and about 40 per cent of
global dairy exports, and has enjoyed a decade of double-digit growth while Australia’s dairy industry
has flatlined.” Creating a large Australian processor, similar to Fonterra, was a theme of Murray
Goulburn ’s failed bid to purchase Warrnambool Cheese and Butter last year.
Dairy Australia ’s farm business capability farm profit and innovation program manager Neil Lane said
there was an argument that scale helped milk companies as a whole, but it was more complex than the
idea that Fonterra’s scale in New Zealand was why its industry grew.The industry in New Zealand
attracted outside capital and had more reliable seasons and rainfall, he said. On farms he said the
argument wasn’t to get big, but to get “big enough” as dry economics indicated smaller farms, for
example those producing less than 120,000MS a year, did not have the ability to dilute their overhead
costs as well, he said.

Page34of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

bucoau : Business Council of Australia
i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i010010502 : Dairy Cattle Farming | i0 : Agriculture | i01001 :
Farming | i0100105 : Cattle Farming | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i413 : Dairy Products | icnp :
Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products | ilsfarm : Livestock Farming
e512 : Physical Trade | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document HERWEK0020140805ea8600017

Page35of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.