Accolade bid to buy Grant Burge

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Accolade bid to buyGrant Burge

Eli Greenblat
518 words
18 November 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
21
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Australia’s patchwork of family owned wineries, some held for five or six generations, could be ripe for
consolidation after a second deal in a week to seize control of a winemaker was unveiled yesterday.
Accolade Wines, which is controlled by private equity and owns iconic wine business BRL Hardy,
was flushed out of cover to confirm it was in exclusive talks to acquire the award-winning Grant Burge
Wines after weeks of rumours among the tight-knit farming communities of South Australia’s Barossa.

Grant Burge Wines was founded in 1988 by Grant Burge and his wife, Helen, and the Burge family
have a Barossa Valley heritage that stretches back nearly 160 years. It is believed Mr Burge and his
family are keen to sell only an equity stake to Accolade, rather than the entire business, as they seek
to maintain a foothold in the winemaker that bears their name.

Mr Burge told The Australian he first went hunting for an investor earlier this year to help out with the
capital-intensive nature of the wine sector.
“Earlier in the year we went to the market to find some equity in the business and it all led on from
there,” he said.
“Accolade Wines weren’t the only people we spoke to.” Accolade, the largest wine company in
Australia, whose portfolio includes Hardys, Houghton, Banrock Station, Leasingham and Tintara,
yesterday confirmed it was looking to buyGrant Burge.

“There is no guarantee that a final agreement will be reached as a result of the discussions,” Accolade
said in a statement.

The move comes only six days after Griffith-based Casella Wines, owners of the juggernaut Yellow
Tail brand, made a $60 million takeover bid for Peter Lehmann Wines — a successful bid after
shareholders representing 95 per cent of the company’s shares, including the Lehmann family,
agreed to sell to the Casella family.

Family-owned winemakers have been shielded from investor angst and sharemarket jitters as their
private structure means they are not responsible to outside equity holders demanding a return on their
investment.

But being family owned can also be a curse, limiting the ability to raise capital for new initiatives or
machinery and infrastructure.
A number of family winemakers have fallen into the hands of private equity or Chinese investors,
eager to gain access to some of the world’s best winegrowing regions.
Mr Burge, whose children also work in the business, said a combination of economic and personal
factors meant it was the right time to invite new investors to back his brand.

Page41of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“Well, I’m 63 years old, and we thought it was time. Our business has been growing substantially and
the wine industry is terribly capital intensive.’’ The latest results lodged with the corporate regulator
show Grant Burge Wines posted flat sales of $43.17m for 2013, as full-year net profit fell to $264,247
from $679,000.The winemaker said in its directors’ report its margins were hurt by two years of difficult
growing conditions and stalled sales in China.

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

coneul : Accolade Wines Limited | amezza : Castle Harlan Australian Mezzanine Partners Pty Ltd
i426 : Wine | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | ialco : Alcoholic Beverages/Drinks | ibevrge :
Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods
cacqu : Acquisitions/Mergers | c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Divestments |
cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141117eabi0005k

Page42of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.