SHIFT OF FOCUS FOR CHINA PROFIT HUNT

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
SHIFT OF FOCUS FOR CHINA PROFIT HUNT

Tony Cripps
719 words
7 April 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
19
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

A broader approach means opportunities
CHINA has benefited immensely over the past three decades from foreign companies coming onshore
to invest. Now the world stands to gain from China’s recent focus on investment outside its borders. In
Australia, this will mean not only a much-needed boost to inbound investment but a broader spread of
investment across more sectors and an increase in private investment.

China has a great deal of money to spend, including $US7 trillion ($7.5 trillion) in savings (dwarfing
Australia’s $US655 billion), and has begun shifting some of this cash into hard international assets like
infrastructure and mines.
Indeed, China’s non-financial outbound direct investment amounted to $US90.2bn in 2013 and is only
just short of the $US117.6bn in foreign direct investment into China. Nowhere is this clearer than
Australia.

Australia has the world’s 13th largest economy but only the 52nd largest population and, therefore, not
a large enough domestic savings base to support its required capital. China is increasingly being
recognised as a new source of funding. Indeed, Australia has been the world’s largest recipient of
capital investment from China over the past eight years. Despite Australia’s appeal for Chinese
investment, it is important to put its current investment flows into Australia into perspective. While China,
including Hong Kong, has had the fastest foreign direct investment growth into Australia since 2007, it
still only accounts for 3 per cent of Australia’s total foreign direct investment and is the ninth largest
investor in Australia overall — so clearly there is room for growth.
While the primary attraction has been energy and mining to date, HSBC is beginning to see evidence
of a shift away from these sectors. China’s policy focus on energy efficiency and green technology is
presenting inward investment opportunities for Australia and its neighbours across a broad range of
sectors including renewable energy, social infrastructure, sustainable business and biotechnology.
For example, HSBC recently advised Beijing Capital Group — a Chinese state-owned infrastructure
enterprise focused on water treatment and waste management — on its $NZ950 million ($880m)
purchase of ASX-listed Transpacific Industries, a waste management business.
This has been the largest acquisition by a Chinese company in New Zealand. In the same way that
there is a diversification in the investment sectors, there is a similar growth in private company
investment as opposed to state-owned enterprises. On my most recent trip to China, I spoke to several
private companies looking to invest in Australia and specifically in businesses that produce goods or
services that are in high demand in China.
The strategy for these Chinese businesses is to combine their experience and networks in China with
the Australian expertise and know how to tap into China’s growing consumer market. Like Beijing
Capital, these companies are seeking to learn from Australian management and replicate Australian
skills and experience and apply to companies back in China.

Page232of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The focus among Chinese companies to create further value within Australian businesses will be
welcome news for the Australian Foreign Investment Review Board. The board acknowledges the
importance of foreign investment for Australia and the need for increased education and transparency in
the review process and has sent delegations to China, for the past two years, to discuss with officials
and businesses on the investment processes into Australia.
China’s outward direct investment has a long way to go to catch up with its economic clout — China
accounts for ten per cent of global GDP, but only 2 per cent of global investment. However, momentum
is growing. Beijing is encouraging more companies to look outward. Policymakers recently raised the
minimum threshold for outward direct investment needing approval to $US300m for the resources
category and $US100m for non-resources projects and the government is expected to streamline the
approvals process.
China’s rise as an economic and trading power has been one of the defining economic themes of the
past decade, but the internationalisation of the Chinese economy is likely to shape the next 10 years in
ways we can only guess at today. Although the world has yet to see a truly global brand name from
China, it is making progress.

Tony Cripps is chief executive of HSBC Australia.

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
china : China | austr : Australia | beijin : Beijing | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140406ea470000j

Page233of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.