Rio Tinto may eclipse target

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Rio Tinto may eclipse target

Amanda Saunders
705 words
16 October 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
27
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Rio Tinto could eclipse its own ambitious iron ore production target for the 2014 year after a strong
September quarter, amid attacks on its expansion strategy by government and industry.
UBS analyst Glyn Lawcock said Rio will easily hit its target of 295 million tonnes for the year if the
current quarter matches up to its September quarter performance.

"Today is evidence from Rio, and I think you'll see similar from BHP next week with their production
figures, that there is no let up in supply, with more supply to come," Mr Lawcock said on
Wednesday.

"Rio's production expansion plans remain on track, so I think that is just going to weigh on the
market."

On Wednesday morning, Rio posted a 12 per cent rise in September quarter production to 76.8
million tonnes, compared to the same time last year. UBS was betting on 76.3 million tonnes.
The miner also increased its copper production guidance for the full year but for Rio it is really all
about iron ore - the commodity accounts for 90 per cent of its earnings.
Rio has found itself under fire this month over the price impact of its iron ore expansion.

The fresh production record came as Rio boss Sam Walsh hit back at West Australian Premier Colin
Barnett's surprise attack on the miner and rival BHP Billiton for "acting seemingly in a concert way"
to flood a depressed iron ore market, saying the expansions were approved by his government.
Rio is well placed to take advantage of growing demand in emerging markets, lead by China,
through its expandable long life operations.
Rio is racing to increase annual production by about 25 per cent to 360 million tonnes a year,
through low-cost expansions of its existing Pilbara infrastructure, which are set to be finished before
June.
Analysts are tipping Rio's full-year iron ore output for calendar 2015 could surprise on the upside.
Rio's update on Wednesday revealed it has produced 216.2 million tonnes in the nine months to
September, a 12 per cent rise on the same period last year. Rio's equity share of that production is
170.3 million tonnes.
Spot iron ore has staged a modest recovery this week, reaching $US84 a tonne on after languishing
at five-year lows of about $US80 a tonne. Spot iron ore has crashed about 40 per cent this year.

Glencore boss Ivan Glasenberg has been casting doubt over Rio's aggressive expansion strategy as
part of his pitch to investors to entice Rio shareholders into a $190 billion merger. Rio told the
market last week of the merger advance, which it rejected in August.

Page84of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Fortescue Metals Group boss Nev Power also attacked the strategies of Rio and BHP, saying they
were "scorched earth" policies that would "result in self-inflicted wounds of the sort we are seeing
playing out now".

Their new unlikely ally, WA Premier Colin Barnett, has attacked the majors saying "remember who
your landlord is".
Mr Barnett has taken umbrage at the falling royalty revenue for WA caused by the drop in iron ore
prices, which he in part blames Rio and BHP for.
Rio hit a 290 million tonnes run rate target in May, two months ahead of schedule, marking the
completion of the first phase of its dramatic expansion from 210 million tonnes to 360 million
tonnes.
Rio Tinto has increased its copper guidance for the year, to 615,000 tonnes of mined copper, up
from 585,000 tonnes, and refined copper production of 300,000 tonnes, previously 260,000.

"The commodities that matter are tracking well," Mr Lawcock says of Rio's production figures.
"Those are iron ore – first and foremost – and then copper, while aluminium, outside of alumina, is
just tracking along."
After a 4 per cent leap on Tuesday on the back of a rare good day for iron ore prices, Rio shares
closed 0.4 per cent higher on Wednesday at $60.99.
Key points Rio looks set to easily reach 295 million tonnes of iron ore for the 2014 year. The firm
has posted a 12pc September-quarter production increase.

bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | rtz : Rio Tinto PLC | rtzcra : Rio Tinto Group | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC |
craaus : Rio Tinto Ltd
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i22 : Primary Metals
| ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources
c21 : Output/Production | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | reqrmm : Suggested Reading
Metals/Mining | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry
News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141015eaag0002v

CO

IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page85of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.