Retail giant still vying for hospitals

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Retail giant still vying for hospitals

Bridget Carter, takeovers
543 words
26 May 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
17
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

EXCLUSIVE WESFARMERS has raised its efforts to break into Australia’s booming healthcare
industry with the Perth-based conglomerate entering the second round of bidding for the $5 billion
private hospital owner Healthscope.

The move could see the Coles owner become a hospital operator by the middle of the year in a
strongly fought global contest for private-equity-controlled Healthscope.

Wesfarmers is cashed up after $4bn in asset sales in the past two years, including the exit from its
insurance operations.

The conglomerate, facing pressure to boost earnings, is seeking growth opportunities via a takeover,
with its lesser performing Target chain, coal and chemicals operations offsetting the success of
Coles. Healthscope’s appeal is its exposure to an ageing population, according to a company source.
However, chief executive Richard Goyder has maintained the company will only embark on an
acquisition if it makes sense and that it will not over pay.

Wesfarmers could not be reached for comment yesterday.

Melbourne-based Healthscope is one of Australia’s largest private hospital operators, with 40
hospitals, and secures more than 80 per cent of its earnings from hospitals, medical centres and
pathology services. It also operates in New Zealand, Malaysia, Singapore and Vietnam.
TPG Capital and the Carlyle Group delisted the company following a $2.7bn takeover in 2010 and
are believed to be weighing up their options.

The second stage of the two-pronged sales process will see Wesfarmers compete with the world’s
largest hospital operator, Hospital Corporation of America, to buy the business, with vendors to
determine whether it would be sold via a $4bn initial public offering or trade sale next month.

A third option is to spin out 28 Australian properties with a suggested market price of $1.25bn, while
selling down the operating business via an IPO or to a trade buyer.
Wesfarmers embarked on site visits and attended Healthscope’s presentations earlier this year as it
weighed up the merits of a bid for the company.

After submitting an initial non-binding indicative offer, selection into the second round will enable
Wesfarmers to secure more information before submitting a final offer.
Three to four bidders are competing for the property Continued on Page 18 Continued from Page 17
portfolio, with at least three parties understood to be global groups, excluding locally listed companies
such as the GPT Group, Lend Lease and Charter Hall which originally circled the portfolio.

US-based Ventas REIT is competing for the properties, but Malaysia’s Parkway is no longer in the
running, a source said yesterday.

Page12of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Whether Wesfarmers will pursue the property assets is unclear. It is also understood that Malaysia’s
IHH had distanced itself from the sales process for the operating business while the extent of interest
by Chinese group Fosun remained uncertain, a source said.
Market sources said vendors were being overly ambitious with the $5 billion enterprise valuation,
which was comparable to its strongly performing listed rival, Ramsay Healthcare.

The preferred option by Healthscope’s management is for the properties and operating business to be
sold together, they added. Healthscope could be one of the biggest floats since the $4bn IPO for rail
group QR National, now calledAurizon.

hesco : Healthscope Ltd | wsfrm : Wesfarmers Ltd
i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | i951 : Health Care/Life Sciences | i95107 : Hospital Care |
ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | iphhp : Healthcare Provision
c182 : Asset Transactions | c14 : Stock Listings | c02 : Corporate Changes | c18 : Ownership Changes
| cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140525ea5q0004c

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page13of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.