Ray White plays Chinese checkers with REA  Group

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Ray White plays Chinese checkers with REA Group

Larry Schlesinger
545 words
18 August 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
39
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Australia's biggest residential real estate group, Ray White, has fired a shot across the bows of
REA Group, publisher of realestate.com.au, by choosing rival Juwai.com to market all of its
overseas Australian listings.
From September 1, all of Ray White's residential, commercial and rural listings will appear on
Chinese language portal Juwai.com rather than on myfun.com, which REA Group launched in
January this year and is looking to expand.

In Australia, the online real estate market has become a battleground between estate agents and
realestate.com.au (plus other portals) after REA Group announced a new pricing model aligned to
postcodes and median house prices, which has increased average advertising rates.
Ray White has backed Real Estate Digital Marketing Services (REDMS) a collective of real estate
agents seeking to negotiate better rates with REA Group as well as other portals, including Domain,
owned by Fairfax Media, publisher of The Australian Financial Review.
Ray White Group chairman Brian White said: "This agreement makes Juwai.com our exclusive
Chinese partner and will lead to new transactions and better outcomes in Ray White offices across
the country.
"[The] Chinese spent almost $6 billion on real estate in Australia last year, generating $147.5 million
in commissions for agents. With spending by US and UK buyers plummeting, Chinese buyers are
virtually the only major foreign buyer group that hasn't cut back on its investments in Australia," Mr
White said.
The decision is a blow for REA Group, which recently acquired a 17 per cent stake in struggling
south-east Asian listings operator iProperty, listed on the ASX and has a variety of tie-ups with other
Asian real estate portals.
The Ray White agreement cements Juwai.com as the dominant Chinese platform for Australian real
estate agents seeking to market properties to Asian buyers. It has also struck exclusive marketing
partnerships with LJ Hooker and RE/MAX among others.

Juwai.com was founded by Australians Andrew Taylor and Simon Henry in 2011. It ranked as the
No. 1 Chinese-language global property portal based on listings, online pages and search rankings,
according Chinese search engine Baidu.com
Mr Taylor, a former senior executive at the REA Group, said Juwai.com was now the exclusive
Chinese partner for all four of the top networks in Australia.

He said Juwai.com had delivered $3 billion worth of leads to Australian agents and vendors in the
first half of 2014.

Page198of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."While the majority of our consumers are in China, a significant share of leads we generate for
Australian property comes from Chinese speakers residing in Australia," he said.
"Australia is the second most popular country in the world for Chinese buyers on Juwai.com, after
the USA. The UK, Canada and Germany follow on in third, fourth and fifth places. The Australian
locations that receive the most Chinese buyer interest are, in order: Sydney, Brisbane, Melbourne,
the Gold Coast and Adelaide," he said.
In its agreements with Australian real estate groups, all their listings are carried on Juwai.com in a
basic format. Estate agents can then purchase upgrades and enhanced branding of properties they
want to get greater exposure on the site.

rlesta : REA Group Limited | newsli : News Limited | nnewz : News Corp
ireest : Real Estate | irreal : Residential Real Estate | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icre : Real
Estate/Construction | i834 : Real Estate Agents/Brokers
ereal : Real Estate Markets | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic
Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140817ea8i0002i

CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page199of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.