Arrium faced a $754m question

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business - Opinion & Analysis
Arrium faced a $754m question

Elizabeth Knight
714 words
16 September 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
28
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

The $754 million equity raising by iron ore and steel group Arrium is being hailed by some as
prudent and by others as desperate. The truth lies somewhere in between. The reality is the
company that has been carrying too much debt on its balance sheet really did not have a choice.

One need look no further than the price of the new stock being issued - a 40 per cent discount to the
company's value-weighted average price over the past three months - to understand that it could not
chance failure. It needs the money to fortify the company in the face of a steeply falling iron ore
price.

Investors will be able to pick up these new shares at 48¢. In March, Arrium shares were trading at
more than $1.50.
Arrium cannot afford to ride out the weakness in the iron ore price. While its cash costs of producing
iron ore sit around $73, the total cost, including servicing debt, is thought to be greater than the
current iron ore price of about $US82 ($91).

It noted on Monday that if current conditions continue, its net debt will blow out by between $100
million and $300 million by December this year - in the absence of a capital raising. And this is
despite a cost-cutting initiative that should bear fruit in the current financial year.
And Arrium is not at the top end of costs relative to other smaller iron ore producers. Many others
are already bleeding red ink. Only a few, including large players Rio Tinto, BHP Billiton and
Fortescue, are making any money out of iron ore at these prices.

Arrium (formerly known as OneSteel) at least has the capacity to raise money. Most of the smaller
producers are completely at the mercy of the iron ore price.
And while there is a school of thought that says the major producers are happy to see the iron ore
price fall in order that smaller producers (and high-cost Chinese mines) are pushed out of the
market, such an outcome makes little sense for BHP and Rio shareholders as these companies will
produce less profit as the commodity price falls.

Only months ago, Arrium and other producers were forecasting a recovery in prices to more than
$US100. Arrium even paid a dividend - a move that with the value of hindsight looks profligate.

But few in the field are willing to make these kinds of predictions at the moment - and none would bet
the house on it.
If Arrium is looking for something to blame, it might first stay close to home. The company's debt
levels are high because (like plenty of other corporates) it acquired an expensive business almost
minutes before the onset of the global financial crisis.

While the business itself, Moly-Cop (which operates in grinding media) is a sound one with
reasonable growth prospects, Arrium paid too much for it and in doing so ratcheted up its gearing.

Page26of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.It is now having to raise expensive equity to pay off that debt.

But if it wants to find some additional culprits, it need look no further than the large local producers,
BHP Rio and FMG - that have been adding supply at unprecedented rates and in doing so adding to
the downwards pressure on the iron ore price.
The final piece in the iron ore price equation is China. Months of economic data - the most recent of
which emerged over the weekend - shows that the rate of growth is slowing ahead of that which its
government had forecast.
Over the past couple of days, reports on Chinese factory production, retail sales and asset
investment all came in weaker than expected.

There is now an increased expectation that the government will need to introduce a new stimulus
package to kick-start growth sufficiently to reach the promised levels of economic growth of 7.5 per
cent.

Meanwhile, Arrium cannot give any real earnings guidance to the potential and existing investors due
to all the unknowns, including the iron ore price, the exchange rate and scrap metal prices. It will
say only that 2015 profit is expected to be lower than 2014.

Twitter: @eknightofficial

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | onestl : Arrium Limited | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC
i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | i211 :
Metal Ore Mining | i222 : Steel Products | imet : Mining/Quarrying
nedc : Commentaries/Opinions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E
Executive News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020140915ea9g0004p

Page27of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.