Yancoal needs $3.5 billion capital injection

HD Yancoal needs $3.5 billion capital injection
WC 449 words
PD 10 November 2014
SN Emerging Markets Business Information News
SC EMBIN
LA
English
CY © 2014 EMBIN (Emerging Markets Business Information News). All Rights Reserved. Provided by

Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company

LP

TD

China's Yanzhou Coal Mining will inject about $3.5 billion in its majority-owned Australian coal miner
Yancoal Australia, underlying its continued commitment to its investment in Australia's coal industry.
Yancoal (YAL) operates seven mines in Australia and the parent company is China's fourth largest coal
company. Yancoal said this morning that it was seeking to raise $US2.3bn ($2.7bn) through a
subordinated capital notes offer to repay existing debt and to fund operations as well as future growth.
Yanzhou Coal, the Chinese state-owned company which owns 78 per cent in Yancoal, has committed to
subscribe for full entitlements in the offer, which will amount to about $US1.8bn ($2.1bn). In addition,
Yanzhou Coal will provide up to $1.4bn in additional extra support and will support fund distributions on
the subordinated capital notes over a five-year period after issuance.

Coal markets have been hurt by a glut of raw material, as supply rises from mining operations in hubs
like Australia and demand growth in Asia eases. Prices of thermal coal used to create electricity and
metallurgical coal, a key ingredient in steelmaking, have been trading near multi-year lows. In August,
Yancoal reported another first-half loss and said it did not expect a marked improvement in global coal
markets in the year ahead. The package of funding injection comes after Yanzhou Coal ditched a plan to
buy out the minority 22 per cent stake in its Australian arm earlier this year. Yanzhou's support for the
offer and associated additional funding commitment, demonstrate its continued long term investment in
Australia, and provides greater certainty for our more than 2000 employees and the communities in which
we operate, Yancoal chief executive Reinhold Schmidt said in a statement this morning. Yancoal would
use the funds it raises to repay existing senior loans from major shareholder Yanzhou Coal Mining, he
said. Any remaining cash would help fund the miner's existing coal operations and projects, such as the
expansion of its Moolarben mine in New South Wales. Yancoal's current debt level had impeded the
company's growth plans in Australia, Mr Schmidt added. In a depressed commodities marketplace facing
continued uncertainty for the near-term, Yancoal's existing level of debt is a significant constraint on our
future expansion and operational improvement strategies, he said. The notes offer will strengthen its
balance sheet and secure funding to pursue future growth opportunities. Under the offer, Yancoal will
issue 2.32112 subordinated capital notes for every 100 Yancoal shares held. The notes will be treated as
equity, improving its capital structure and gearing ratio, the company said.

CO yaptyl : Yancoal Australia Limited | yankua : Yankuang (Group) Corp | ynzmn : Yanzhou Coal Mining Co

Ltd
i111 : Coal Mining | i1 : Energy | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i112 :
Coal Mining Support Activities
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

IN

RE

IPD Mining
PUB Info-Prod Research (Middle East) Limited
AN Document EMBIN00020141110eaba000cw

Page254of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.