Prevention Through Design

Safety Management: Peer-Reviewed

SE
HD Prevention Through Design
BY
WC 3,280 words
PD
1 November 2014
SN
Professional Safety
SC
PFS
PG 43-49
VOL Volume 59; Issue 11; ISSN:00990027
LA
CY © 2014 Professional Safety. Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning. All Rights Reserved.
LP

David L Walline

English

TD

Causal data from serious and fatal injury events suggest that the decisions arising from the prevention
through design (PTD) process play a central role in avoiding such events. Numerous studies and research
reveal that 20% to 50% of all mishaps reported a design gap finding. For example, Australian Safety and
Compensation Council (2006) explains how the design of machinery and equipment affected the incidence
of fatalities and injuries in Australia: "Of the 210 identified workplace fatalities, 77 (37%) definitely or
probably had design-related issues involved. Design contributes to at least 30% of work-related serious
nonfatal injuries" (p. 6). The author's firsthand experience and study suggests that such events are at the
high end of this range.

The central question then becomes what is preventing organizations from addressing design-related
events. The author believes a critical organizational and cultural blind spot exists. Benchmarking with
other OSH professionals indicates that most injury/illness data management systems do not ask for,
capture or call attention to designrelated causal factors. This data gap has caused design-related latent
conditions to go uncontrolled and undetected by most organizations. As a result, existing and new designs
continue to be developed with inherent uncontrolled hazards and risks that have the potential to cause
serious mishaps.

To avoid design-related mishaps, OSH professionals can conduct a deep dive into their organizations'
injury/loss experience. Such an internal critical examination often produces startling results that can be
used to drive a new and necessary focus on PTD. For example, the author's work has led to the
development of design safety checklists centered on control measures related to past serious
mishap/fatality events (Table 1, p. 45). When stakeholders such as engineers, safety professionals,
designers, builders/fabricators and contractors understand how design gaps have led to catastrophic
outcomes, the justification for using high-level control becomes evident.

PTD Skill Building

ASSE's (1994) position statement on designing for safety (another term for PTD) states:
Designing for safety (DFS) is a principle for design planning for new facilities, equipment and operations
(public and private) to conserve human and natural resources, and thereby protect people, property and
the environment. DFS advocates sys- tematic process to ensure that state-of-the-art engineering and
management principles are used and incorporated into the design of facilities and overall operations to
assure safety and health of workers, as well as protection of the environment and compliance with current
codes and standards.

As a starting point to enhance PTD skills, OSH professionals should review ANSI/ASSE Z590.32011,
Prevention Through Design: Guidelines for Addressing Occupational Hazards and Risks in the Design and
Redesign Processes. As stated in Section 1.3, Application, the standard applies to four main stages of
occupational risk management as follows:

1) Preoperational stage: Initial planning, design, specification, prototyping and construction processes,
where the opportunities are greatest and the costs are lowest for hazard and risk avoidance, elimination,
reduction and control.

Page88of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.2) Operational stage: Hazards and risks are identified and evaluated, and mitigation actions are taken
through redesign initiatives or changes in the work methods before incidents and exposures occur.

3) Postinddent stage: Incidents and exposures are investigated to determine the causal factors that will
lead to appropriate interventions and acceptable risk levels.
4) Postoperational stage: Demolition, decommissioning or reusing/rebuilding operations are undertaken.

Based on the author's informal research and discussion with many global OSH professionals over the past
5 years, following are rough estimates of how practitioners spend their time:

*preoperational stage: 10% (avoidance and elimination focus);

*operational stage: 70% (compliance and retrofit focus);

*postincident stage: 20% (claims management, litigation, regulatory issues);

*postoperational stage: less than 1% (decommissioning, demolition).

OSH professionals often spend too much time fighting fires or working in compliance mode based on
several false beliefs:

1) Business leaders know what they should be doing next in OSH (such as PTD).

2) Nothing can be done in PTD without a corporate edict or standard.

3) PTD is to be left to engineers and designers.

4) If initial PTD efforts are not perfect, the effort is a failure.

5) It is up to others to engage safety professionals in PTD processes.

To move PTD to the forefront of business decision making, the OSH community must begin to spend more
time in the preoperational stage. OSH professionals need to shift away from and perhaps exit out of
traditional safety roles and daily focus on compliance program development, training, inspections and
claims management, and transition into risk avoidance and risk-mitigation activities related to
organizational planning, design, specifications, safety procurement specifications, design safety reviews,
proven solution development and risk assessment. This entails changing how professionals do their jobs.

The safety professional's job description of the future must look much different than it does today.
Progressive employers will want individuals who possess key core competencies (working in the
preoperational risk management stage) in PTD, risk assessment, management of change, fatal and
serious injury prevention, operational risk management system, contractor risk management, safety
specifications for procurement, and human error and human performance.

ANSI/ASSE, Z10-2012, Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems (another highly
recommended document), highlights these core competencies. Additionally, ASSE's Risk Assessment
Institute has identified 16 risk assessment core competencies for safety professionals (www
.oshrisk.org/fun-core.php). In the author's opinion, safety professionals should establish a career target
(both time and skill set) of spending 70% of their time working in the preoperational stage of risk
management. At this stage, the business community can best see OSH professionals as valued business
partners and risk mitigation advisors.

Safe Design Myths & Bad Designs

Over time, the author has identified five common safe design myths that must be dispelled. The following
statements illustrate these myths:

1) "This design meets minimum compliance, therefore it is safe."

2) "PTD is cost prohibitive. High-level controls are too costly."

3) "PTD will slow the project. We do not have time for design reviews and risk assessment."

4) "Current/old design is safe enough. We have always done it this way, and our injury experience does
not prove otherwise."

5) "Low-level controls greatly reduce severity of harm."

Page89of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.In addition, poor designs can negatively influence an entire organization because they can produce
serious mishaps, low employee morale, poor product quality, poor operating efficiency, and equipment
and process reliability issues. These negative influences are often readily apparent when organizations
have incorporated lean manufacturing principles and processes into their operations. During safety and
production kaizen events (iSixSigma.com), business leaders, employees and maintenance teams often
state that "we could be world class in productivity or safety if the process had been designed differently."
Bad design equals bad performance in many areas of business in the global marketplace.

Proven Solutions: A PTD Culture Revolution

In this context, the term proven solutions means designing out causal factors through risk avoidance and
hazard elimination. ANSI/ASSE Z590.3 outlines a unique hierarchy of controls (Figure 1, p. 46). It is
unique in that the most preferred method for achieving acceptable risk in design is risk avoid- anee.
Avoidance means preventing, by design, hazards from entering the workplace. Avoidance has the
greatest net positive impact on safety because no hazards exist to be eliminated or controlled. A good risk
avoidance statement begins with a "no" statement (e.g., "No elevated work"). Borne out of each such
statement comes a proven solution.
Consider an example of proven solutions in practice. On a large capital project in China (multimillion dollar
manufacturing facility), the author worked (2009-11) with the design/build firm to incorporate proven
solutions into the plant design by placing each performance objective (what one wants to see at the ribbon
cutting) into a no statement. For example:

1) No portable ladders.

2) No powered forklift trucks used in the manufacturing space.

3) No elevated work.

4) No energized electrical work.

5) No manual handling/lifting of manufactured product (45 lb) by production employees.
6) No elevated or remote energy isolation points used for lockout/tagout/try tasks.

7) No open chemical processing and mixing systems.

8) No unsecured trailers while being loaded.

9) No open electrical panels to perform diagnostics or thermography.

10) No fall hazards during construction.

11) No congested or restricted workspace (people, equipment, maintenance, emergencies).

12) No direct interface between employees and powered machinery and equipment (both during normal
and abnormal conditions).

Based on these performance objectives, sustainable proven solutions were used. For example:
1) Typical portable ladder tasks were designed out by a) relocating work to ground level; b) making work
accessible by fixed stairways/ platforms; and c) establishing proper accessway for work lifts.
2) An automated guided vehicle system was implemented to eliminate forklift operations.
3) Electrical energy isolation, arc preventive switch gear/motor control centers and diagnostic ports were
used.

4) Piping system isolation valves, gages and filters were located ground level.

5) Trailer restraint system and dock door barrier guards were used.

6) Automated product conveyance and lifting systems were installed.

7) Fully enclosed chemical process and mixing systems were employed.

8) 100% fall prevention was used during construction (e.g., perimeter guarding, skylight guarding, aerial
lifts).

9) Employees wore less PPE, not more.

Page90of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.10) Devices were under exclusive control of maintenance worker for approved troubleshooting tasks.
11) All hazardous energy isolation points were located at floor level within =10 ft of need.

12) Employees were removed from directly interfacing with powered machinery and equipment through
barrier guarding and automated jam clearing systems.

Improving Human Performance

ANSI Bll.0-2011, Safety of Machinery: General Requirements and Risk Assessment, contains a hazard
control hierarchy that clearly outlines the influence that each control level has on the severity and
likelihood of risk factors (Figure 2, p. 46). It indicates that the greatest influence occurs at the elimination
or substitution level. Despite this, many perceive that low-level controls have a great impact on severity
when they do not. Guarding and engineering controls are excellent risk control measures, but their primary
purpose is to reduce likelihood not severity. That is why control effectiveness and control maintainability is
vital for sustainable protection.

Applying proven solutions can enhance human performance by addressing human error influences such
as:

*high ambient noise and/or temperatures;

*poor job lighting;

*poor ergonomics (e.g., layout, job set up, work space);

*PPE loading and barrier to job completion; *responding to routine process upsets, jam-ups, abnormal
conditions;

*performing complex work;

*performing physically demanding work that induces fatigue;

*use of hand tools that draw a worker close to the hazard;
*uncontrolled hazard/energy sources; *distractions (e.g., multitasking, alarms, weather conditions).

When looking at causal factors related to design gaps, one or more of the human error influences can be
present at the same time. Proven solutions also support the safe behaviors that eliminate common human
error factors.

The sea change that is created by PTD is reflected when managers, business leaders and others make
these types of statements:

*"Design the work so it is easy to do it safely and difficult to do it wrong."

*"Severe work injuries will have more impact on the organization than stopping production to make it safe."

*"Never underestimate having a bad outcome from a person who wants to do well."

*"Administrative and PPE controls will never replace the appropriate safe guards."

Reducing Overall Burden Costs

Any capital project carries two monetary expenditures: 1) pay now, which is the cost of the new design,
and 2) pay later, which is the long-term burden costs. Burden costs commonly linked to a facility's life
expectancy include injury claim costs, compliance maintenance costs, retrofit costs, business interruption,
operating inefficiencies, resource management and manpower costs. Firsthand experience shows that
longterm burden costs often far exceed those of the original design solution that would have eliminated the
entire hazard category.

Thus, a key PTD selling point is the long-term burden costs that an organization will incur when hazards
are not avoided or eliminated in the design or redesign phase. Communicating the burden costs incurred
when low-level controls are selected over one-time, high-level controls designed to avoid or eliminate
hazards and risks represents an opportunity for OSH professionals.

It is also important to educate decision makers that burden costs must be maintained throughout the
facility's life expectancy, and these costs can be extreme. Table 2 shows the typical long-term burden
costs associated with compliance-related programs such as ladder safety, forklifts, confined space entry
and respiratory protection.

Page91of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Now, consider an example involving portable ladder use in a typical manufacturing setting. Falls from
ladders are often life altering or fatal, and portable ladders are a leading cause of OSHA violations. For
one project, the author determined that burden costs of portable ladder use in a 500,000-sq.-ft. facility with
a planned 50-year life span could be as much as $9.3 million (Table 3, p. 48).

Using proven solutions to design out (risk avoidance) the 17 defined routine ladder tasks (175 ladder
users) in the concept stage would require a one-time capital investment of $500,000. This is a noteworthy
net positive gain, as is never having a portable-ladder-related mishap (fatality or life-altering injury) at the
facility. It is important to remember that the ladder and its user are both lower-level controls. A safe ladder
and safe user do not achieve low risk. Therefore, the focus must shift from ladder compliance programs to
ladder avoidance through design.

Impact on Risk Level

On another project, the author uncovered a significant risk factor when performing an in-depth review of
bad design causal factors that were not previously seen. The key risk factor discovered was the impact of
a congested or restricted access or workspace on worker safety. One common way to control project
costs is to reduce floor space or the facility's footprint. The result is less workspace and/or restricted
access to equipment for maintenance tasks.
In some cases, this forces operations management to purchase portable ladders because the design
provides no workspace or access for alternative safer designs such as stairways, personal lifts and
hoisting equipment. Table 4 (p. 48) illustrates how restricted access/workspace affects risk, design and
long-term burden costs. It indicates that placing piping system isolation valves at ground level would
achieve a negligible risk level rating and avoid long-term burden costs. This single example highlights the
positive impact PTD can have on reducing long-term burden costs and mishaps.

Risk Assessment Incorporated Into PTD

The author's in-depth, nonscientific study reveals these trends:

1) Task-based risk assessment is often a critical missing component in the PTD process.

2) Design safety reviews often do not have a special focus on abnormal conditions and/or infrequently
performed tasks.

3) Heavy reliance on low-level controls (i.e., warning systems, administrative controls, tools, PPE) does
not provide appropriate protection to workers at the time of a mishap. In most cases, controls do not match
risk levels.

This presents an opportunity to incorporate risk assessment, design specifications and proven solutions
into a unified PTD process. A task-based risk assessment (On Safe Lines) worksheet (Table 5, p. 49)
helps identify design specifications and proven solutions that can be incorporated into the new design to
achieve a project design performance ob- jective (e.g., no portable ladders) and a design residual risk
target (e.g., prevent elevated falls).

Business Value & Benefits Gained From PTD

The benefits derived with safe project delivery are another key PTD selling point. Recall the new plant built
in China. The proven solutions incorporated into that facility's design helped produce these additional
benefits:

*Project came in significantly under budget.
*Lower energy was consumed throughout the project.

*Zero waste was taken to a landfill, meaning an overall net positive impact on the environment.

*Plant sold out its product line and achieved full production capacity ahead of schedule.

*Worker morale was high.

*Operating efficiency targets were achieved ahead of schedule.

*Plant design and all job tasks achieved acceptable risk rating.

*At time of this writing, no serious mishaps or near-hit events have been reported since plant start-up in
2011.

Page92of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.*The design team and project champion were recognized by the CEO and company leadership.

Successes such as these make clear that proven solutions that avoid risk and eliminate hazards in design
must be the OSH profession's legacy rather than programs and firefighting. Knowing that the 350
employees of this world-class facility can return home injuryand illness-free each day is the true reward of
these efforts. OSH professionals can elevate their value to their organizations by showcasing how they
can help design for acceptable risk through sustainable, high-level controls.

PTD Action Steps for OSH Professionals

OSH professionals can create and maintain a library of risk-based proven solutions that will expedite
future design safety reviews that may encompass similar exposures and risks. This will help eliminate the
PTD myth that "we don't have time for design reviews and risk assessment."

Several resources are available to help OSH professionals develop a proven solution library. For example,
ASSE has several:

*Risk Assessment Institute (www.oshrisk.org);

*Body of Knowledge (www.safetybok.org);

*PTD initiative (www.asse.org/professionalaf fairs/ptd);

*Risk Assessment Certificate program (www .asse.org/education/cert-prog);

*virtual PTD symposium (http://eo2.commpart ners.com/users/asse/session.php?id=10516).

Other resources include:

*NIOSH's national PTD plan (www.cdc.gov/ niosh/programs/PtDesign);

*OSHA Alliance Design of Construction Safety initiative (www.designforcon structionsafety.org) ;

*Construction Industry Institute (www.construc tion-institute.org).

OSH professionals can also incorporate lessons learned from completed design projects, benchmark, and
seek input from engineers, designers, vendors, suppliers and hourly workers.

In addition, OSH professionals are encouraged to take the following actions to start a culture revolution
around PTD. The rewards and benefits will be many, the most noteworthy being the prevention of
life-ending and life-altering mishaps.

1) Create a design safety checklist from organizational incident data that relate to design gaps.

2) Know and communicate the percentage of organizational incidents caused by design gaps.

3) Establish a personal goal to spend more time working in the preoperational stage of occupational risk
management.

4) Develop a critical skill set around PTD and risk assessment.

5) Apply a high level of control decision making in the design process with special focus on severity
reduction.

6) Identify and share with leaders and design teams the long-term burden costs related to poor design
decision making.

7) Work to dispel common safe design myths.

8) Eliminate barriers to safe work through design.

9) Capture and communicate the many benefits from safe design.

10) Incorporate task-based risk assessment and safe design specifications into the PTD process.

Conclusion

Reid experience has shown that incorporating proven solutions into design is critical to the prevention of
life-altering and fatal mishaps. These solutions have global application and can bring demonstrated value
to any organization. As with all approaches to risk mitigation, OSH professionals must consider all forms of

Page93of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.mitigation, and be creative and fiscally responsible. It is also important to consider human factors, the
unpredictability of human-machine interactions and human decision making. The pace of injury/illness
prevention improvement is directly linked to the speed of change led by OSH professionals. Risk
assessment and PTD must be at the forefront of the profession's efforts. The community has the
responsibility, creativity and power to ensure injury-free lives around the world. This must be its legacy.

CO usfacc : Safe Work Australia
IN
NS

i837 : Technical Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
coccsh : Workplace Safety/Health Issues | c41 : Management | gtrea : Medical Treatments/Procedures |
c42 : Labor/Personnel | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ghea : Health |
ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
IPD Scholarly Journals
PUB American Society of Safety Engineers
AN Document PFS0000020171123eab1000w9

Page94of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.