CWN Mining Acquisition Corporation Announces Private Placement

HD
CR
WC 1,168 words
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

CWN Mining Acquisition Corporation Announces Private Placement

CWN Mining Acquisition Corporation; Canada NewsWire

19 December 2014
00:57
Canada NewsWire
CNNW
English
Copyright © 2014 Canada NewsWire Ltd. All rights reserved.

TD

TORONTO, Dec. 18, 2014 /CNW/ - CWN Mining Acquisition Corporation ("CWN") (TSXV: "CWN.P"), a
capital pool company, is pleased to announce a proposed non-brokered private placement of up to
8,000,000 common shares (the "Shares") at a price of $0.50 per Share for aggregate proceeds of up to
$4,000,000 (the "Private Placement"). All Shares issued pursuant to the Private Placement will be subject
to certain resale restrictions.

The Private Placement is being undertaken concurrently with CWN entering into an option agreement (the
"Option Agreement") dated October 31, 2014 with YES Exploration Syndicate Inc ("YES Exploration"),
pursuant to which CWN will be granted an option to acquire a 100% undivided interest, net of a 2% royalty
reserved for YES Exploration, in certain mining claims situated in the Whitehorse Mining District, Yukon,
Canada, and generally and collectively known as the "TOP Project" (the "Transaction"). The Private
Placement is being conducted by CWN in order to satisfy the terms of the Option Agreement and the
proceeds from the Private Placement will be used to provide CWN with adequate working capital and
financial resources to carry out a stated work program on the TOP Project for 12 months following closing
of the Transaction.

Management of the Resulting Issuer

The Transaction is subject to TSX Venture Exchange ("TSXV") approval and is intended to constitute
CWN's "Qualifying Transaction" in accordance with TSXV Policy 2.4 – Capital Pool Companies. Upon
completion of its Qualifying Transaction, the following persons will be directors, officers or insiders of the
resulting issuer:

Wen Hua (Ben) Li – CEO and Director

Mr. Wen Hua (Ben) Li is an experienced international businessman with a background in engineering and
management and numerous years of experience in the mining industry. He has worked as a project
director in an exploration stage iron ore project based in China for four years, during which time, the
company advanced from early exploration phase to discovery phase. Subsequently, Mr. Li has spent
several years evaluating and visiting mining projects throughout North America and Australia. Mr. Li has
expertise in the mining exploration industry, in evaluating potential investments in the mining sector and
expertise in management of exploration projects. Mr. Li has an Advanced Diploma in Electrical
Engineering from TAFE NSW – Sydney Institute – Ultimo College in Sydney, Australia. Under the Private
Placement, Mr. Li will become the beneficial owner of 6,000,000 Shares and will become an insider of the
resulting issuer.

Terry Wong – CFO and Corporate Secretary

Ms. Terry Wong is a Certified Management Accountant with over 9 years of financial experience working
for both private and public companies. She has also worked closely with companies and professionals
within the finance, mining, and energy industries. Ms. Wong has advanced knowledge of Canadian
GAAP and IFRS regulations. From July 2008 to April 2011, Ms. Wong acted as the financial controller of
Resinco Capital Partners Inc., a TSX listed investment company. Since then, Ms. Wong has acted in
numerous financial roles in companies, including as an interim CFO of Axmin Inc. on the TSX Venture

Page199of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Exchange. Axmin Inc. is a Canadian exploration and development company with a strong focus in Africa. 
Ms. Wong received her BCOMM from the University of British Columbia.

Joe Kin Foon Tai – Director

Mr. Joe Kin Foon Tai has been the Managing Director of Goldpac Investments Ltd., an investment
consulting company, since January 1997. Mr. Tai currently serves as a director of Axmin Inc., a TSX
Venture Exchange listed gold mining company, Adex Mining Inc., a TSX Venture Exchange listed
multi-metal mining company, and China Goldcorp. Ltd., a NEX listed CPC. Mr. Tai served as a director
of Portal Resource Inc. (now Galileo Petroleum Ltd.), a TSX Venture Exchange listed mining company
from March 2009 to September 2010, and Medifocus Inc., a TSX Venture Exchange listed medical device
developer from 2006 to November 2012.
William B. Burton – Director
Mr. William B. Burton graduated with an Honours Bachelor of Sciences (Honours B.Sc.) in Geology from
Dalhousie University in Halifax in 1973. From 1973 to 1986 he was an active geologist for various
corporations including 12 years with a division of Rio Tino Zinc. From 1986 to 1994 he founded various
public mining companies. He founded ADEX Mining Corp. (TSXV:ADE) in 1994, and was the Chief
Executive Officer from 1994 to 1998, and oversaw the acquisition of the Mount Pleasant Property in
1995. He has also been a director of Erdene Resource Development (TSX:ERD) since 2003. Erdene
Resource Development is focused on the definition of late stage gold and copper projects in Mongolia.
He is a director of CWN (TSXV:CWN.P), a CPC. He has held executive positions in various publicly
traded companies in Canada involved in mineral exploration and development around the globe. With 40
years experience in the minerals sector, he has both hands on experience as a geologist and as an
executive. From 1996 to 1998, he was the Vice-President of Exploration of International Pursuit evaluating
gold properties in Asia, including Mongolia, and was the President of Mongolian Goldfields Corporation
from 1996 to 1997. More recently, as President, CEO and founder of MagIndustries Corp. (TSX:MAA), he
led the completion of feasibility studies to develop the Kouilou solution potash mine operation after many
years of exploration and development of extensive carnallite deposits in the Republic of Congo.
MagIndustries Corp. is now controlled by Chinese interests who have invested over $1 billion in the
Kouilou mine project. Mr. Burton completed the Institute of Corporate Directors' Audit Committee
effectiveness course in December 2012.

Kevin Wen Lai – Director

Mr. Kevin Wen Lai is an experienced businessman with nearly two decades of experience in executive
and management roles in American and Chinese companies. Mr. Lai's expertise includes management
and international trade. Mr. Lai has served as an Associate Director for Glory Harvest Group Holdings Ltd.
since 2007 and has served in senior technical and management roles at Dell Inc. and Ask.com. Mr. Lai
has a Master of Science degree in Information and Computer Sciences from the University of Hawaii and
a Bachelor of Science degree in Information Systems and Computer Sciences from the Brigham Young
University at Hawaii. Under the Private Placement, Mr. Lai will purchase 1,500,000 Shares and will
become an insider of the resulting issuer.

About CWN
CWN is a capital pool company within the meaning of Policy 2.4 of the TSXV, incorporated under the
Canada Business Corporations Act with its head office in Vancouver, British Columbia. The principal
business of CWN has been the identification and evaluation of assets with a view to completing a
qualifying transaction.

Neither TSXV nor its Regulation Services Provider (as that term is defined in the policies of the TSXV)
accepts responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of this release.
SOURCE CWN Mining Acquisition Corporation

please contact Terry Wong, Chief Financial Officer at (778) 998-9168.

CT
CO cwnaq : CWN Mining Acquisition Corp
IN

NS

i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ishell : Shell Company | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | ibcs :
Business/Consumer Services | imet : Mining/Quarrying
c171 : Share Capital | c18 : Ownership Changes | cacqu : Acquisitions | cprpla : Private Placements |
npress : Press Releases | c17 : Funding/Capital | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin
: C&E Industry News Filter

Page200of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

austr : Australia | cana : Canada | caon : Ontario | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz :
North America

IPD CWN-PrivatePlacement
IPC MNG
PUB PR Newswire Association, Inc.
AN

Document CNNW000020141218eaci001uv

Page201of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.