When only the best will do

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Money
When only the best will do

Emily Chantiri
804 words
29 June 2014
Sunday Age
SAGE
First
9
English
(c) 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Some retailers are doing it tough but luxury stores, especially those in Melbourne and Sydney, are
flourishing. Emily Chantiri reports.
Consumers around the world are seeking to buy a slice of the good life, according to a report by
corporate advisory firm the Boston Consulting Group.

The study found that consumers spend more than $1.8 trillion worldwide annually on items defined as
luxury goods and services, such as dining, apparel, cosmetics, watches and jewellery.
On a global scale, Melbourne and Sydney are in the top 25 of the firm's list of 550 growth cities for
luxury, ahead of shopping destinations such as Abu Dhabi and hedonistic locations such as Miami and
Rome.

There is plenty of evidence to support that ranking, looking at the number of luxury brands opening
stores across the nation, says Sarah Willersdorf, a principal at the Boston Consulting Group.

"Since 2011, luxury stores such as Chanel, Canali, Louis Vuitton, Prada, Miu Miu, Zegna, Tiffany & Co,
Salvatore Ferragamo and Gucci have either set up or are opening up for the first time in Australia, with
more locations across the country," says Willersdorf. "Much of this is driven by Chinese tourists. Our
report forecasts the number of Chinese tourists visiting Australia each year is set to rise from 900,000
in 2012 to 2.2 million in 2020."

The executive director of the Australian Retailers Association, Russell Zimmerman, is not surprised by
the findings.

"You only have to look at the 2013 Boxing Day sales to see the number of people lining up to get into
the high-end stores," he says.

"Interestingly, luxury brands don't necessarily offer the big discount sales like Myers and David Jones
during this period. They do have discounts on some items, but it is considerably smaller than other
retailers.

"Tourism from Asia is also driving the trend for branded items. It's an opportunity for Australian retailers
to meet these demands."

With the appetite for luxury purchases set to continue, he warns consumers to be aware of faux
products when shopping online.

"Sometimes you will see luxury-branded items selling for an exceptionally cheap price. Consumers
need to be aware that the Gucci or Louis Vuitton item they are buying could be a knock-off," he says.

Page10of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.For some items, no matter where in the world they are bought, the price remains consistent,
Zimmerman says, but some brands are extending to offer more affordable product lines for consumers
with leaner wallets.

"Take Apple computers. The price seems to be fairly well controlled regardless of where in the world it
is purchased. It is much more difficult to find discounts with high-end brands," he says.

However, "not so long ago, luxury European cars were only for the wealthy. Now, brands such as
Mercedes, BMW offer entry-class model vehicles, which is not far off the reach of an average wage
earner".

In February, 2014, CommSec's luxury vehicle index reported a surge in the market share of luxury
cars. The index rose by 16 per cent in the 12 months to January, compared with just a 1.4 per cent rise
in the sales of all passenger cars and sports utility vehicles. Luxury cars now represent a record 7.9 per
cent of all sales of passenger cars.

Along with the general craving for luxury, consumers' taste for eating out is also increasing. The
restaurant, cafe and catering industry has recorded significant growth in turnover. According to the
Australian Bureau of Statistics, sales increased 11.4 per cent from April 2013 to April 2014.

Restaurants, cafes and catering services were the star performers of this growth, while takeaway
shops were falling behind, says John Hart, head of industry body Restaurant and Catering Australia.

"Since 1998, there has been a swing from takeaway and fast meal options to eating in or full-service
dining. This shows a dramatic shift in the way Australians are dining," he says.

The change could be attributed to a number of factors, Hart says. The first is demographics, with many
older Australians preferring to dine out rather than take home a pizza or pad thai. There is also a trend
to go out for breakfast or brunch, or eat outside the traditional meal times, which is helping.

"Today, there are a number of dining options that are more affordable than the traditional lunch or
dinner service," Hart says.

"Consumers are looking for savings and they are doing this increasingly by sharing entrees and
desserts and sticking to one glass of wine per meal.

"This gives diners the restaurant experience, without the high-end cost of a full-serviced meal."

Enjoying the good life without the big price tag - that too can be luxury, Hart says.

IN
NS
RE

PUB
AN

iretail : Retail | i64 : Retail/Wholesale
gpersf : Personal Finance | gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | sydney : Sydney | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz :
Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SAGE000020140629ea6t00031

Page11of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.