(AECOE) Cooper Energy : ROC exits Basker Manta Gummy (BMG)

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

(AECOE) Cooper Energy: ROC exits Basker Manta Gummy (BMG)

320 words
31 March 2014
Ralph Wragg Australian Business News
AAPRAW
English
Copyright 2014 RWE AUSTRALIAN BUSINESS NEWS PTY LTD. All Rights Reserved.

Sydney - Monday - March 31 (RWE) - Cooper Energy Limited (ASX: COE) reports:
Roc Oilcompany Limited (ASX: ROC) today announced that it has signed a sale and purchase
agreement to sell its entire 50% participating interest in the Basker Manta Gummy (BMG) field to
Cooper Energy Limited (ASX: COE).

ROC receives an upfront cash consideration of A$1 million (subject to working capital adjustments)
and a A$5 million contingent consideration, subject to first hydrocarbons from a commercial
development.
The sale of the interest includes the transfer of all remaining ROC BMG liabilities and operatorship to
COE, resulting in a reversal of ROC's full abandonment obligation, with a resulting profit of ~US$32
million (subject to working capital adjustment, before and aftertax).
The sale is effective 1 January 2014 and is subject to regulatory approval.
Commenting on the sale, ROC's Chief Executive Officer Mr Alan Linn said "This sale completes ROC's
exit from the BMG fields and surrounding licences.
ROC and the Joint Venture (JV) suspended BMG operations in 2010, because, at that time, a full field
development was considered to be non commercial.

The fields have been in a non-production phase since 2010 during which time the JV has completed a
detailed development review designed to understand the most efficient routes to bring BMG gas and
liquids to market.
With ROC's strategy progressively increasing our business focus in South East Asia and China we
have concluded that a BMG gas development is no longer a core project for the business.
As a consequence of the sale, ROC has increased its capacity to develop value growth opportunities
within our core operating regions and create value and returns for our shareholders.
The sale generated a profit of ~US$32 million and removed a significant potential future abandonment
obligation for ROC".

Miro Advisors assisted ROC on this transaction.

rx

CO
IN
NS
RE
PUB
AN

copeng : Cooper Energy Ltd | rocoil : Roc Oil Company Ltd
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
RWE Australian Business News Pty Ltd
Document AAPRAW0020140330ea3v000mc

Page117of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Page118of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.