Rules gag visiting Glencore chairman as merger tilt in wings

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Rules gag visiting Glencore chairman as merger tilt in wings

Peter Ker
495 words
15 December 2014
Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
19
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Resources

The arrival of Glencore chairman Tony Hayward into Australia this week will do little to calm
tensions between the Swiss miner and Rio Tinto, amid expectations a second proposal to merge
the two mining giants could emerge early next year.

Mr Hayward's flying visit to Australia will include a speaking engagement in Melbourne on Tuesday
and meetings with some of Glencore's Australian staff, but British takeover laws will probably
prevent him from publicly spruiking the merits of a merger with Rio this week.

It is believed the British rules, which require a six-month freeze between an unsuccessful first
acquisition or merger attempt and a second bid, will even prevent Mr Hayward from approaching
Rio's Australian-based shareholders in private to discuss a second offer.

Glencore reportedly approached some of Rio's bigger owners, including its biggest shareholder
Chinalco, about a merger before Rio announced it had been the subject of a merger offer on
October 7.

Several of Rio's large Australian shareholders indicated they were not scheduled to meet Mr
Hayward this week.
Mr Hayward, who was chief executive of BP during the disastrous Deepwater Horizon oil spill in
2010, will speak at an Australian Institute of Company Directors event in Melbourne on Tuesday,
which will take place under strict "Chatham House Rules" that prevent attendees from reporting his
comments.

The two companies have been shadow boxing ever since Glencore's approach to Rio was
publicised, but the Rio merger is just one of several transactions Glencore has pursued in recent
months.
The Swiss company was deeply involved in BHP Billiton's sale process for its Nickel West business
in Western Australia earlier this year, but couldn't convince the nation's biggest company to part
with the asset, which BHP says is no longer subject to a formal sale process.

Speaking at an investor briefing in London last week, Glencore's nickel department director Kenny
Ives hinted that the battle for Nickel West might not be over.

"We would love to have bought it but literally it didn't work out. It is as simple as that. Who knows
what the future brings?" he said.

Glencore chief executive Ivan Glasenberg told the same briefing Glencore would continue to be
opportunistic in the hunt for acquisition targets, and the depressed prices in iron ore and oil could
make distressed producers in those sectors vulnerable to an approach.

Page114of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.While Glencore said it would retain a competitive base dividend and would continue the current
$US1 billion round of share buybacks, the company was less clear on its plan for shareholder
returns than other miners have been.

Rio, in particular, has promised to reveal a plan to deliver increased shareholder returns in
February.

Rio's Australian shares were at $53.67 at the close on Friday.

The stock has fallen 24 per cent since February.

CO

IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

almcor : Aluminium Corporation of China Limited | craaus : Rio Tinto Ltd | march : Glencore PLC |
rtz : Rio Tinto PLC
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i224 : Non-ferrous Metals | i2245 : Aluminum | i8396
: Diversified Holding Companies | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | ibcs : Business/Consumer
Services | imet : Mining/Quarrying
c18 : Ownership Changes | cmerg : Mergers | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cacqu :
Acquisitions | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types |
nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | switz : Switzerland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | dach : DACH
Countries | eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020141214eacf00008

Page115of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.