Hedge funds steer clear of Treasury Wines

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Market Wrap - Street Talk
Hedge funds steer clear of Treasury Wines

Edited by Sarah Thompson, Anthony Macdonald and Gretchen Friemann
362 words
27 August 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
16
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Treasury Wine Estates may have lured in some of the world' s biggest private equity funds but its
appeal to hedge funds is decidedly luke warm

So far, the opportunists that typically presage a takeover transaction are yet to show up in
significant numbers on the wine producer's register.

It is of course early days in the bidding race, even though KKR has hovered over the ailing
company since April, with both suitors advancing highly conditional offers of $3.8 billion or $5.20
per share.

But the thin trading volumes from the opportunists underscore the risk that the takeover
negotiations will unravel. Treasury's lacklustre earnings, blamed on adverse currency swings,
underline how much of the stock's upward momentum stems from excitement about a buyout.
The persistent challenges in the US market combined with sluggish conditions in China and
Australasia even have some in the market fretting the suitors will revise down their bids after
completing due diligence.
While others discount such a scenario given the invidious position it would leave Treasury's board,
it's clear both KKR and its partner Rhone Capital, as well as rival bidder, TPG, will have little
difficulty untangling themselves from the current discussions.

Understandably then, hedge funds are giving the stock a wide berth.

A lofty valuation combined with a high degree of risk around deal completion represents a deterrent
for hedge funds and opportunists who typically mine the arbitrage gap ahead of a takeover as
evidenced on both Australand and Envestra.

In both those instances, an acquisitive shareholder controlled substantial stakes, underpinning the
likelihood of a deal.

On Treasury however, the opportunists are exposed to a massive valuation slippage. One hedge
fund source pointed out that even if a deal at $5.20 looked certain, the entry price would need to be
cheaper than $5.15.

If the stock weakens, then the arbitrage hunters may flock in but a slump to under $5 may also be
read as a sign the suitors have walked. Either way, Treasury remains a risky play.

CO
IN

trzwn : Treasury Wine Estates Ltd
ihedge : Hedge Funds | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | ialtinv : Alternative Investments |
ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i426 : Wine |
ialco : Alcoholic Beverages/Drinks | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods

Page219of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS
RE
PUB
AN

ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140826ea8r0001i

Page220of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.