Gas expectations fuel hopes for clean power

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

TheNation
Gas expectations fuel hopes for clean power

MICHAEL MCKENNA QUEENSLAND POLITICAL EDITOR
449 words
3 December 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
8
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

THE Newman government will offer a $500 million fund to develop and commercialise clean fuel
alternatives as part of its plan to sell or lease its coal-fired power stations and electricity assets.
At the opening of the state’s first domestic liquefied natural gas plant, outside Chinchilla in central
Queensland, Mr Newman said the government wanted to help move industry and agriculture into
cleaner energy The $500 million in assistance, to be funded by the proposed $34 billion sale and
lease of government assets, to be put to voters at the next election, will offered to researchers and
industry to commercialise alternatives to carbon-based fuel.

Mr Newman said the opening of the $200m BOC plant, which will produce 50 tonnes of LNG a day to
be used for domestic manufacturing, mining and trucking, should herald a new way to fuel the sectors.

The plant is the first in Queensland to produce fuel for the Australian market and already is powering
the Nestle and Buderim Ginger factories in southeast Queensland.
“Our state has vast energy resources, but instead of just exporting those reserves I want
Queenslanders to find new ways of developing cleaner and greener fuels,” Mr Newman said. “If just a
fraction of our trucking firms, mines and farms switched to domestically produced fuels, we would see
more jobs for our kids and lower emissions, too.” BOC executives and trucking companies plan to build
LNG truck stops along the country’s east coast to convert the transport industry to the cleaner fuel.
Trucks could travel for up to 700km without having to refuel with LNG.

BOC managing director Colin Isaac said the truck-stop plan represented a new era, with truck
manufacturers now building the engines that use LNG.

“One of the things that slowed the conversation of the transport industry is the availability of suitable
engines,’’ he said.

“So there are engine manufacturers that are making dual-fuel engines today … you’re immediately
switching over to cleaner, greener, less noise pollution, less pollution.” The president of anti-coal-seam
gas group Lock the Gate, Drew Hutton, said he was not opposed to the use of LNG for domestic
purposes.

“It’s just a pity that we have to destroy the whole Surat Basin ... for an export industry that in the long
run won’t suit Australia’s purposes at all,” he said.“The concern I have about using gas for domestic
purposes is that Australians are going to be paying three times as much for the gas as we should be,
because it’s now going to be linked to the export price.”

CO
IN

NS

bglaus : Buderim Ginger Ltd
i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1 : Energy | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i4229 :
Condiments/Sauces/Ingredients | icnp : Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products
gpol : Domestic Politics | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations

Page18of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141202eac30003c

Page19of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.