Rinehart milks formula boom

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Rinehart milks formula boom

Peter Williams
343 words
14 November 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
Second
73
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

Gina Rinehart is set to broaden her agricultural interests through a $500 million dairy industry
investment aimed at supplying infant formula to the Chinese market.
Hancock Prospecting has confirmed a venture it controls in partnership with a Chinese state-owned
company plans to buy thousands of hectares of Queensland farmland and a processing facility.

The deal is set to be signed in Brisbane this weekend at the G20 leaders’ summit.

“Mrs Rinehart has been involved in the planning of this exciting venture, which will be a huge boost
for Australia, Australian exports and for the Queens- land dairy industry, which has been in much
need of support,” a Hancock Prospecting spokesman said yesterday.

“Hancock Prospecting and Gina Rinehart are huge believers in Australia and back strong export
opportunities for the country.
“It’s in line with the company’s principles . . . and we’re very happy to be supporting the Australian
dairy industry.”
Hancock Prospecting is understood to hold a 70 per cent stake in recently formed Hope Dairies, in
partnership with China National Machinery Industry Corporation, or Sinomach, an enterprise run by
the central government and among the world’s biggest.
Hong Kong-based co-investor and director Dave Garcia said Hope Dairies would acquire about
5000ha in the South Burnett region north-west of Brisbane.
A former Mount Gibson Iron senior executive, Mr Garcia said the operation might produce up to
30,000 tonnes of formula a year, with first production planned in 2016.
The dairy deal follows Hancock Prospecting in July announcing a $65 million beef venture which
gave Mrs Rinehart 50 per cent of the Liveringa and Nerrima stations that cover 470,000ha in the
Kimberley.
The Chinese formula market is forecast to almost double over three years to about $26 billion, with
foreign produce favoured because of a domestic contamination scandal.

“They are going to be reliant on imports for a good while and they are looking to get clean material,
and material that is identifiable into the market,” Mr Garcia said.

CO
IN

hkpros : Hancock Prospecting Pty. Ltd.
i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i413 : Dairy Products | icnp :
Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying

Page156of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS
RE

PUB
AN

ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document TWAU000020141113eabe0000a

Page157of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.