Merchant lifts MacPhersons stake

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

WestReg
Merchant lifts MacPhersons stake

Jarrod Lucas
502 words
29 July 2014
Kalgoorlie Miner
KALGOO
First
3
English
(c) 2014 West Australian Newspapers Limited

Orion Mine Finance will lift its stake in Kalgoorlie-based MacPhersons Resources to 19.9 per
cent as part of a $10.4 million capital raising, bringing the Nimbus polymetallic mine closer to
production.

The New York-headquartered metal merchant, formerly known as Red Kite, will subscribe for up
to $6.5 million worth of MacPhersons shares.

MacPhersons chairman Ashok Parekh is also putting his money where his mouth is by
subscribing for up to $1 million in the 16 cents-a-share placement.
Mr Parekh’s stake in MacPhersons will grow to 12 per cent, making the well-known accountant
and Palace Hotel owner the company’s second-biggest shareholder behind Orion.

He said in-fill and mine plan extensional drilling at Nimbus, 10km east of Kalgoorlie-Boulder, was
“delivering exciting results”.

“As chairman I am very confident of the direction we are heading in,” he said.

The bulk of the funds will go towards completing MacPhersons’ long-awaited bankable feasibility
study for Nimbus, which started last November.

The results are expected in the December quarter when an investment decision on a new silver,
gold and zinc mining operation will likely be made.

“It will be roughly 12 months once we decide to turn the key, so it’s very exciting times,”
MacPhersons managing director Morrie Goodz said.

“Hopefully we will be commissioning our plant late next year.

“The industry as a whole is on the improve — I think we’ve seen the bottom of the cycle last
year.”

Last year’s market malaise prompted MacPhersons to move away from a proposed “Silver Super
Pit”, and instead develop an underground operation.
The new plan is to start mining the existing East Pit at Nimbus before moving to an underground
operation after eight months of mining.

The adjacent West Pit will head underground after 20 months, and, as the Nimbus fleet becomes
available, mining at the Boorara gold mine about 2km away will be run in parallel with Nimbus.
Nimbus has silver reserves of 10.8 million ounces of silver and 31,000 tonnes of zinc.

Page124of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mr Goodz said the zinc component will become increasingly important as mine closures are
expected to result in a deficit in excess of one-million tonnes in 2017.

Nimbus would be WA’s third producing zinc mine behind Independence Group’s
Jaguaroperations near Leonora and Chinese-controlled MMG’s Golden Grove mine near Mt
Magnet.

MMG’s Century mine in north-west Queensland, Australia’s largest open-cut zinc mine, is
scheduled to close next year.

“The zinc market is up nearly 20 per cent this year and demand is expected to increase over the
next couple of years, so zinc becomes a very important part of the project moving forward,” Mr
Goodz said.

“There are some suggestions zinc could be $US3000 a tonne by 2016.

“It has the potential to double the revenue on what we’ve previously modelled.”

Zinc was trading at $US2406 a tonne yesterday.

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

mcprwg : MacPhersons Resources Limited
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | igoldm :
Gold Ore Mining
mnonfr : Non-ferrous Metals | m14 : Commodity Markets | m142 : Metals Markets | mcat :
Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E
Exclusion Filter
waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document KALGOO0020140728ea7t0000g

Page125of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.