China Coal Rules May Hit Australia, South Africa Miners, but Impact Unclear -- Market Talk

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

China Coal Rules May Hit Australia, South Africa Miners, but Impact Unclear -- Market Talk

1,375 words
17 September 2014
08:49
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

10:49 GMT [Dow Jones] Producers from Australia and South Africa that sell high-ash coal are most at
risk from China's clamp-down on coal import quality, but may be able to upgrade their material through
washing or blending with lower ash products, says Sydney-based UBS analyst Daniel Morgan. "Large
coal groups with multiple mines and scale may be better placed" to deal with the restrictions, he says.
Coal that doesn't meet the requirements could be diverted to markets like India, or elsewhere in Asia, he
says. "For this policy to be effective it needs a massive compliance regime with widespread sampling,"
Morgan says, adding that for the moment, "price and volume impacts are unclear."
(rhiannon.hoyle@wsj.com; Twitter: @RhiannonHoyle)

18:13 EDT - Wells Fargo (WFC) announced two new executives today to lead its consumer credit and
auto lending businesses. Dawn Martin Harp will lead an expanded Dealer Services division that includes
Commercial Auto and Strategic Auto Investments in addition to the Indirect Auto business she led since
2011, the bank said. Shelley Freeman will lead the Consumer Credit Solutions group. These moves are
in light of the upcoming retirement of Tom Wolfe, who led all the consumer credit and auto lending
businesses. Harp and Freeman will report to Avid Modjtabai, who leads WFC's consumer lending unit.
(emily.glazer@wsj.com)

18:10 EDT - United Technologies (UTX) has a problem with where it generates its cash. Half of its $6.5B
of free cash flow is overseas. "So bringing the cash back is difficult," CFO Greg Hayes said at an
investor conference. "We find ways to do it to a certain extent, but I've got a lot of trapped foreign cash."
To bring the $5B of cash that's held by foreign subsidiaries to the parent company would incur a US tax
hit. "It's expensive," says Hayes. UTX uses its cash to buy back stock and pay dividends. It expects to
buy back about $1.35B of stock this year and $2B next year. (kate.linebaugh@wsj.com)

17:54 EDT - Sears Holdings (SHLD) shares had their worst one day percentage loss since Jan. 10, after
the company disclosed yesterday that it borrowed $400M from Chairman and CEO Edward Lampert to
ensure it has adequate funding through the holidays. SHLD closed at $30.37, down 9.4%. That
compares with a decline of 13.8% on Jan. 10. Today's close is the lowest since Feb. 10, when the
shares closed at $28.94. (suzanne.kapner@wsj.com)

17:47 EDT - Starwood (HOT) said in Quito that it's continuing an aggressive growth strategy in Latin
America, with seven new Four Points hotels slated to open in the region in the next three years. In
Mexico, the company opened Four Points Queretaro in September, and will open three more hotels,
including Four Points Saltillo in October, Four Points Cancun in December and Four Points Puebla in
2017. In Colombia, hotels in Bogota and Barranquilla will also open by the end of the year. The
company will open a hotel in Cuenca, Ecuador by September 2017. (mercedes.alvaro@wsj.com)

17:44 EDT - If there's a bundle buster out there among major television companies, it should be Viacom
(VIA VIAB). That's the gist of a report from Guggenheim, which argues that VIA should offer an online
streaming package of its channels directly to consumers, in addition to its current offerings inside the
pay-TV bundle, because it's getting a raw deal out of the current ecosystem. While other media
companies have been wary of rocking the pay-TV boat, VIA has the greatest incentive to do so,
Guggneheim argues, because it's a "net subsidizer" of the current ecosystem, getting less money in
affiliate fees per viewer than almost any other channel group. And as Janis Joplin put it, freedom is just
another word for nothing left to lose. (keach.hagey@wsj.com)

Page233of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.17:40 EDT - Global hotel company Wyndham (WYN) has signed a franchise agreement to open a
hotel at Quito, Ecuador's new international airport. The 146-room property, to be owned by the
Ecuador's Group Pronobis, will be the only hotel at Quito's Mariscal Sucre international airport. The
property is part of an existing deal to develop and franchise eight hotels under Wyndham Hotel Group
brands over the next 10 years. The new hotel, which will be open in late 2015, will be the fifth Wyndham
property operating in Ecuador under Pronobis' ownership. (mercedes.alvaro@wsj.com)

17:34 EDT - Nomura economist Tony Volpon thinks chances are high for opposition candidate Marina
Silva to become Brazil's next president, even though her campaign has less money and structure than
that of incumbent Dilma Rousseff. Volpon says that the president is unlikely to get 50% of the vote and
avoid a second round, when Silva may get support from large opposition groups. He compares the
situation with a boxing match where one of the fighters, Silva, has one hand tied to her back. But even
with two hands free, Rousseff is unable to eliminate her opponent. In the next round, Volpon says Silva
will come "with her two hands free," increasing her chances of winning. (paulo.trevsani@wsj.com;
@ptrevisani)

17:32 EDT - United Technologies (UTX) CFO Greg Hayes said he continues to scout for large-scale
M&A, but the pipeline is "not terribly robust." To move the needle, Hayes said the company would have
to do something big, and it would likely be in the company's two core markets -- commercial aerospace
or commercial buildings. Of the two, aerospace is probably harder to do deals, he said, so there are
more opportunities on the commercial building side. UTX would like to find another deal like Goodrich,
but there's not much in the pipeline "of that ilk," he added. (kate.linebaugh@wsj.com)

17:31 EDT - Angel investors are looking to tap into the entrepreneurial spirit at colleges and universities
with venture-capital funds such as the Green D Founders Fund, aimed at startups with Dartmouth
College ties. The fund, being raised with the help of Boston-based Launch Angels, seeks a total of $1M
to $2M from up to 40 Dartmouth alumni. Launch Angels plans similar funds for other schools. It's the
latest effort aimed at capitalizing on the innovation arising from university campuses and research
centers. The University of California announced plans this week for a $250M venture fund.
(russell.garland@wsj.com)

17:28 EDT - Evercore Partners (EVR) increased its expertise in technology and defense industries by
hiring Denis A. Bovin, a highly experienced former senior managing director at Bear Stearns. Mr. Bovin
has joined EVR's investment banking department and will continue to work with aerospace defense and
global technology firms as a senior adviser, he said. Mr. Bovin has served on or consulted with
numerous boards that advise the Pentagon and White House on defense and intelligence policy, and he
serves on the board of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. (james.sterngold@wsj.com)

17:11 EDT - Venezuela has $4.5B in bond payments due next month, and the country's oil revenues and
$21B in reserves should be enough to pay it all back. But Russ Dallen of Caracas Capital says the
country's administrative shuffle has put in charge "people without a real track record...with the only
qualification for getting their job being their relationship to Chavez." In other words, no one really has any
idea what the people in charge will decide, although President Nicolas Maduro assured investors last
week that Venezuela would keep paying its debt. (nicole.hong@wsj.com)

To contact the Market Talk Editors,
Kevin Kingsbury, 212 416-2354, kevin.kingsbury@wsj.com
Cynthia Lin, 212 416-4403, Cynthia.lin@wsj.com
John Shipman, 212 416-2181, john.shipman@wsj.com
Patrick Sullivan, 212 416-2326, Patrick.sullivan@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

September 16, 2014 18:49 ET (22:49 GMT)

IN

NS

i6651 : Hotels (except Casino)/Motels | ihotel : Hotel Construction | i111 : Coal Mining | imet :
Mining/Quarrying | i1 : Energy | i501 : Building Construction | i66 : Hotels/Restaurants | i665 : Lodgings |
ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | iconst : Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ilea :
Leisure/Arts/Hospitality | itourm : Tourism
gpol : Domestic Politics | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | namt : All Market Talk | ncmac :
Commodities Asset Class News | ndjmt : Dow Jones Market Talk | nenac : Energy Asset Class News |
neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | gcat : Political/General
News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E
Exclusion Filter

Page234of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

PUB
AN

ecu : Ecuador | austr : Australia | china : China | quito : Quito | safr : South Africa | africaz : Africa | apacz
: Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China |
devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | lamz :
Latin America | samz : South America | souafrz : Southern Africa
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document DJDN000020140916ea9g0041n

Page235of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.