Australia’s Infrastructure Plans Spur Deals; More Than US$1.6 Billion in Takeover Deals This Month

SE
HD

BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Australia’s Infrastructure Plans Spur Deals; More Than US$1.6 Billion in Takeover
Deals This Month
By Ross Kelly
785 words
22 December 2014
17:39
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

SYDNEY—When Australia’s Tony Abbott last year promised to become an “infrastructure
prime minister”—putting bulldozers on the ground and cranes in the sky—his ambition
roused boards in cities from Beijing to New York.

Now, following a raft of deal-making among foreign contractors and private-equity investors,
the winners and losers from Mr. Abbott’s call to arms are becoming clearer.

Takeover deals worth more than 2.0 billion Australian dollars (US$1.6 billion) combined have
been agreed t his month by foreign businesses including China Communications
Construction Co. and Apollo Global Management. Another overseas raider suffered a
different fate Monday, when Spain’s Ferrovial SAdropped plans to buyTransfield Services
Ltd. after its sweetened A$1.02 billion offer was rebuffed.

For some of the bidders, Australia offers a bright spot in a world where many governments
are trying to balance their books by reining in spending, including on big new infrastructure
projects.

Mr. Abbott’s government has also outlined austerity measures including cuts to education
and health care spending, but sees new roads and repairs to creaking infrastructure as a
way to offset the slowing in resources investment that has powered the economy for a
decade.

Page33of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.When it released its May budget, Mr. Abbott’s conservative government said it planned to
spend A$28.5 billion on infrastructure projects across the country between fiscal 2015 and
fiscal 2018. Most of that has been allocated to road projects, with much of the rest dedicated
to rail.

Shares of many Australian construction and engineering companies have come under
pressure as resources investment slows and the country’s economy weakens, opening the
door to opportunistic bids.

Acquiring a local operator can have several strategic advantages for foreign companies. It
can knock out a competitor for work being tendered, while providing immediate access to a
local workforce and management with expertise in bidding for infrastructure contracts. In a
vast country such as Australia, where the terrain can range from tropical wetlands to the arid
Outback, acquisitions can give foreign companies a national network of operation centers
from which to manage major projects.

Still, foreign companies may find Australia an unhappy hunting ground as bidding for
infrastructure contracts will be fierce. “Companies could be disclosing big contract wins, but
you may find there will be very little impact on profits.” said Simon Mawhinney, a portfolio
manager at Allan Gray Australia, which is Transfield’s biggest shareholder with an 18.5%
stake.

In the biggest deal so far, Leighton Holdings Ltd. sold its John Holland construction business
to China Communications Construction Co. this month for around A$1.15 billion, giving the
Chinese firm a solid foothold in Australia.

Days later, Leighton agreed to sell half of its construction and mining services arm to U.S.
private-equity firmApollo Global Management for A$700 million. Bradken Ltd., a
manufacturer of equipment for the mining and construction sectors, and closely-held
construction group Tenix, have also become takeover targets for local and foreign buyers in
recent months.

Not all efforts to gate-crash Australia’s infrastructure carnival have been successful.
Ferrovial’s revised bid for Transfield Services was rejected as too low. Back in July, the
Spanish firm dropped a separate offer for Leighton’s John Holland unit after it too was
knocked back.

Ferrovial said it had differing views to Transfield of the businesses’ value, as it confirmed
Monday that talks had ceased. A person familiar with the matter said Ferrovial wouldn’t be
raising its revised A$2.00 per share offer and wasn’t planning to take the bid directly to
Transfield’s shareholders.

“We’re definitely disappointed it wasn’t possible to get a little bit more,” said Mr. Mawhinney,
who was seeking an offer closer to A$2.15 per share. “For us the concern isn’t that Ferrovial
have walked away, it’s that they’ve seen something that we don’t know about.”

Page34of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.A key stumbling block, the person familiar said, was how to value a A$1.22 billion contract
Transfield holds that is up for renewal in October 2015. The contract is to service detention
camps on the Pacific Ocean islands of Nauru and Manus, where Australia runs an offshore
visa-processing system for immigrants who try and enter the country without authorization,
often by boat.

Write to Ross Kelly at ross.kelly@wsj.com
| Bloomberg News | Cranes tower over a construction site in Sydney.| Getty Images | Prime
Minister Tony Abbott addressed an infrastructure business breakfast at a Sydney hotel on
Nov. 14.
apolmn : Apollo Global Management LLC | charb : China Communications Construction Co.,
Ltd. | frvl : Ferrovial SA | traser : Transfield Services Limited
iconst : Construction | iinv : Investing/Securities | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ifinal :
Financial Services | i502 : Heavy Construction | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles |
i8150203 : Private Equity | ialtinv : Alternative Investments | ibcs : Business/Consumer
Services
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cacqu : Acquisitions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial
News | nimage : Images | reqris : Suggested Reading Investing/Securities | c18 : Ownership
Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin :
C&E Industry News Filter | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested
Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Tony Abbott
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document WSJO000020141222eacm002bd

ART

CO

IN

NS

RE
IPD
PUB
AN

Page35of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.