China bottle tech checks smash market in fake wine

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
China bottle tech checks smash market in fake wine

727 words
22 April 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
First
20
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

Counterfeiting wine is a big and lucrative business in China, with increasingly more sophisticated
methods used to replicate famous brands.
China’s CTV has reported that 50 per cent of wine sold in China could be fake but many in the
industry believe the true figure for high-profile brands — such as Bordeaux’s Chateau Latour and
Chateau Laffite, as well as premium Australian names such as Penfolds Grange — is as much as 90
per cent.

One source told WestBusiness that as he watched a shipment of wine being unloaded in China he
was approached by someone who offered to double the consignment overnight — obviously with
cleverly faked bottles.
The problem is that with so much money involved there are many who stand to lose millions and
until recently they have managed to protect their business interests with heavy hands and deep
pockets.
But things are starting to change. Speaking in Perth, the head of a major Chinese state-owned
enterprise group, with extensive businesses in technology, industry, trading and investment, said
China’s Government had already taken significant steps.

Danyang Zhu, chairwoman of the Guangdong Guangxin Information Industry Development Co, said
the Government had established the China Food and Drug Administration, which aimed to fix safety
issues surrounding food products in China.
“And for wine, the Guangdong Provincial Wine Testing Centre has been established to determine
the authenticity of the wines that can ultimately lead to counterfeiters being prosecuted,” she said.
Ms Zhu’s group and WA-based Linkar Group have joined the fight against counterfeit wines in
China with the launch of a wine app and tracing technology, with the first shipment of wines using
the new technology set to leave Perth next month.
A container of McHenry Hohnen wine worth more than $100,000 will be shipped to China with the
bottles incorporating new labelling that allows the tracing system to be activated and the wines
tracked.
“As a small premium producer, it is vital that wines sold into the China market are protected from
being copied, which destroys the integrity of our crafted product,” Murray McHenry said.

“By having a tracking system on each carton and bottle we will be able to ensure our premium wines
are what the consumer is purchasing.
“Australia is the second-biggest exporter to China, and growing.”

Page84of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The tracing system is a collection of search engines that allow consumers, retailers, wholesalers,
distributors and suppliers to access a range of data related to their wines.

A special label with coding is applied to each bottle, which can be scanned with a smartphone using
an app. Consumers can also read a description of the wine, its background and reviews.
According to Linkar operating director Max Ma, most Chinese consumers did not know what to look
for on the labels.

“Bottles use the original label, artwork and trademarked name, but the name and logo are altered
slightly to look like the original, and it’s different enough not to be a counterfeit and yet, still fool
consumers,” he said. “The inability to read French or English makes it even more difficult for some
unsuspecting buyers.
“Another method is for counterfeiters to buy empty wine bottles and simply refill them with cheap
wine. Or they use a syringe to remove some or all of the wine from a bottle and refill it with cheap
wine.

“Today, high-end restaurants, hotels, collectors and auction houses regularly smash empty bottles
after consuming them to avoid their re-entry into the marketplace.”
Mr Ma believes the Chinese Government will eventually demand that all food, wine included, be
required to adopt a system to guarantee its authenticity.
Wine Australia general manager of regulatory advice Steve Guy said it was essential any wine
company thinking of selling into China protected its intellectual property by registering their
trademark in China before they started to distribute.

For Australia, the stakes are high. The exorbitant price of Bordeaux wines and the recent bad
vintage from 2013 is providing Australian wine producers with an opportunity to capture a greater
share of the market.

In terms of imports, Australia remains second behind France but it is achieving the highest average
value among the top-10 importing countries.
China remains the biggest destination for Australia’s premium wines above $7.50 a litre.

NS

RE

PUB
AN

gcount : Counterfeit/Forgery | gcat : Political/General News | gcrim : Crime/Courts | gfinc : Financial
Crime | gfraud : Fraud | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News
Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document TWAU000020140421ea4m0003b

Page85of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.