UPDATE: Mitsubishi, Mitsui scrap LNG SPA from Woodside's Browse project

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

UPDATE: Mitsubishi, Mitsui scrap LNG SPA from Woodside's Browse project

580 words
2 January 2014
Platts Commodity News
PLATT
English
Copyright 2014. Platts. All Rights Reserved.

Singapore (Platts)--2Jan2014/356 am EST/856 GMT (Adds background)

Woodside Petroleum said Thursday that a 2012 deal to sell LNG from the Browse project in Western
Australia to Mitsubishi and Mitsui's Japan Australia LNG joint venture MIMI has lapsed because of a
failure to reach a final investment decision.

MIMI had agreed to buy 1.5 million mt/year of LNG from the Browse project in April last year under a
sales and purchase agreement in conjunction with its acquisition of a 14.7% equity stake for $2
billion.

The deal also included an agreement for Woodside and MIMI to jointly market co-mingled LNG volumes
to Asia, primarily to Japanese customers.

In a filing to the Australian Securities Exchange, Woodside said: "The SPA was conditional upon a final
investment decision on Browse being taken by 31 December 2013."

"As a result of the Browse joint venture participants deciding not to proceed with an onshore
development and to enter basis of design for a floating LNG development concept, both parties
recognize that this condition [of achieving FID] will not be satisfied. Consequently, MIMI has today given
Woodside notice terminating the SPA," the Australian company said.

The joint marketing agreement still remains, Woodside said, adding that it is also in discussion with other
regional customers regarding potential LNG sales.

FID BY MID-2015

Woodside in April ruled out building an onshore liquefaction facility to process its Browse gas at a site
backed by the Western Australian state government at James Price Point. Woodside is currently
undertaking basis of design studies for a floating LNG development for its offshore Browse fields.

Woodside leads the Browse joint venture with partners Shell, BP, PetroChina, Mitsui and Mitsubishi. The
Australian company is targeting an FID on the FLNG project by mid-2015.

Woodside CEO Peter Coleman said last month that he expected early costings for the Browse FLNG
project to be available in the first or second quarter of 2014. The development would utilize technology
developed by Shell, which is currently building its first FLNG facility for the Prelude field in the Browse
Basin.

The Browse project is expected to comprise two or three FLNG facilities, each with a capacity of 3.6
million mt/year. The Browse resource totals 15.5 Tcf of gas and 417 million barrels of condensate, held
in the offshore Torosa, Calliance and Brecknock fields.

Coleman has previously said the FLNG option would be 30% to 50% cheaper than an onshore James
Price Point project over the life of the Browse fields.
Speaking at the World Energy Congress in Daegu, South Korea, in November, Coleman said that
Woodside is set to get marketing negotiations for Browse gas underway ahead of FID.

Page89of210©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."The advantage on Browse is that it's pretty much just a Woodside decision, because ... two of [the
partners] are portfolio players, being BP and Shell, so they'll need to make their own decision, Mitsui and
Mitsubishi are trading houses and PetroChina will likely run [the LNG] into their own operations in
China," the Woodside boss said.

"The actual marketing risk we see is fairly low because it's pretty much us ... The good part about it is
each player will be able to actively market its own gas."

Song Yen Ling, yenling.song@platts.com

Mriganka Jaipuriyar, mriganka.jaipuriyar@platts.com

Edited by E Shailaja Nair, shailaja.nair@platts.com

CO

IN

NS

mimi : Japan Australia LNG (MIMI) Pty Ltd | wodpet : Woodside Petroleum Ltd | mtsubc : Mitsubishi Corp
| mtsui : Mitsui & Co Ltd | rnlp : Royal Dutch Shell PLC
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | i1300004 :
Liquefied/Compressed Gas | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
| iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
c184 : Joint Ventures | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial
News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
0100

RE
IPD
PUB Platts, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies Inc.
AN

Document PLATT00020140102ea12000p7

Page90of210©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.