Clean coal works on a large scale: IEA expert

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Clean coal works on a large scale: IEA expert

Ben Potter
526 words
23 April 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
14
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

An international clean coal expert will on Wednesday urge Australia to try harder to show carbon
capture and storage can work at commercial scale for coal-fired power stations.
Andrew Minchener, general manager of the London-based IEA Clean Coal Centre, will tell
government and industry officials in Canberra that more commercial carbon capture and storage pilots
are needed. The centre operates under the auspices of the International Energy Agency.

Dr Minchener told The Australian Financial Review lessons were being learned from research and
small demonstration units. But ultimately the industry would need more large pilots to generate
"enough confidence that you will go ahead and design a commercial prototype".

"It's that confidence that's needed if you're going to get the money from the investors to build the
equipment," he said.

Showing that CCS is commercial would remove a big question mark hanging over Australia's vast
coal industry and the power generators and industrial users that depend on it. Larger commercial
pilots have been commissioned in Canada and China and are being developed in the United States
and Britain, funded by a mix of government and industry. China – the world's largest coal user – had
increased its commitment to clean coal and CCS after a slow start.
The Chinese government believes its cheap construction costs will enable it to capture intellectual
property rights and make money from CCS if it proves commercially viable, Dr Minchener said.
Pilots of CCS and other clean coal technologies in Australia have been more modest. Solar and
wind-powered generation have grown more rapidly in response to incentives and renewable energy
targets, and there is no commercial scale CCS pilot in Australia yet despite expenditure of hundreds of
millions of dollars.
Dr Minchener said Australian companies could do more to secure their future as large coal exporters
but fluctuating government policy had slowed progress.

"You've had very swiftly changing policies in this country. You've gone from one extreme to the other
and somewhat back a bit," he said. "Eventually it will swing somewhere back in the middle."
Dr Minchener said people in Australian coal mining were "acutely aware" that Australia's effort in
CCS did not match their stake in coal's future.
Representatives of Glencore Xstrata, Peabody Energy, Anglo American, BHP Billiton, Rio Tinto and
federal and state governments will hear from Dr Minchener at meetings convened by the Minerals
Council of Australia in Canberra and Brisbane.

CCS has been widely dismissed as a viable low emissions technology because it adds 50 per cent to
the capital cost of a power plant and 5 per cent-10 per cent in operating costs.

Page39of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.But the sheer quantity of coal and infrastructure meant it would likely continue to be used, Dr
Minchener said.
"I am not for one moment saying coal's going to be around for ever so get over it," he said.

"What we have to do is to ensure it's used as efficiently as possible, as cleanly as possible, and get it
to a point where CCS can be incorporated."

CO
IN

RE

PUB
AN

inenag : International Energy Agency
i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i1610108 : Electric Power Generation - Fossil Fuel | i16101 : Electric
Power Generation | ieutil : Electric Utilities | iutil : Utilities
austr : Australia | auscap : Australian Capital Territory | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140422ea4n0000j

Page40of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.