Media Release: Vital Foods Processors Ltd

HD Media Release: Vital Foods Processors Ltd
WC 976 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

14 April 2014
AAP MediaNet Press Releases
AAPMPR
English
© 2014 Australian Associated Press Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved

AAPMEDIA RELEASE PR56500 New clinical trial will look at role of kiwifruit extract in IBS

AUCKLAND, New Zealand, Apr. 14, 2014 / NZPA-AsiaNet/--

TD

New Zealand natural pharmaceutical company Vital Food Processors Ltd today announced that the
company has engaged the target number of sites to recruit patients to a trans-Tasman clinical trial
targeting treatment of irritable bowel syndrome. The 10-centre trial investigates the efficacy of the kiwifruit
extract Kivia in patients diagnosed with irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) with constipation. Vital Foods
already markets the same product under the brand name Phloe in the over-the-counter market in New
Zealand. Irritable bowel syndrome is regarded as a major womens health issue affecting about one in 10
people, mostly women aged between 20 and 50 years. There are limited treatment options for the
condition, which presents as recurring abdominal pain or discomfort associated with either constipation or
diarrhoea that lasts for at least six months. The double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled Phase III
clinical trial, to establish the efficacy of Kivia, will recruit 180 patients who will be monitored and treated
over a three-month period. The trial recruited its first patient in December 2013. Recruitment is now taking
place at 10 sites across New Zealand and Australia. Patients are being admitted to the trial in Melbourne,
Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide, Auckland, Dunedin and Hastings. Results are expected before the end of this
year and if successful, will lead to entry of the product into international markets with a specific health
indication for the treatment of IBS. Vital Foods chief executive Justus Homburg said Phloe is one of the
most extensively investigated natural products for digestive health. This clinical trial is designed to build on
the results of previous studies that focussed on relief of constipation and showed that Phloe relieved
abdominal bloating, pain and flatulence in people with some of the symptoms also associated with IBS,
said Mr Homburg. These included four randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials conducted in
the United States and in China and three randomised open-label trials conducted in Japan. Dr Bruce
Donaldson, one of Vital Foods founders and a director of the company, says the new study is a significant
step in identifying a successful treatment for the estimated 2.7 million people in New Zealand and
Australia that suffer from IBS. Dietary intervention is already a mainstay of our treatment of IBS. Adjusting
the intake of fibre, carbohydrate and fat in the diet can be effective, but IBS remains difficult to treat and is
an ongoing burden for many people that impacts on their daily quality of life. This trial is a step towards
identifying an effective treatment. Dr Iona Weir, Vital Foods chief scientific officer, says international
investigations into the cause of IBS to date have yielded no clear results. However, while the causes of
IBS have not been clearly identified, we do know what factors can contribute to symptoms. In earlier
studies, Phloe has been shown to relieve some of those symptoms and what is most exciting is that it
appears the proprietary kiwifruit extract in the product, zyactinase, may actually modify some of the
contributing factors in the gut. We now have an extensive body of clinical data that supports the efficacy of
Phloe. Anyone who is interested in further information about this clinical trial or who is interested in
participating in the trial should go to http://www.theideastudy.com/ About IBS Irritable Bowel Syndrome is
a chronic gastrointestinal disorder estimated to affect between 9 and 23% of the population worldwide.
Although it affects approximately one in 10 people, the International Federation for Functional
Gastrointestinal Disorders reports that most IBS sufferers do not seek medical help. Nevertheless, in the
United States between 2.4 and 3.5 million annual physician visits are for patients diagnosed with IBS,
and it has become a major womens health issue. About Phloe One of the most effective, gentle laxative
over-the-counter therapies currently available, Phloe is made from green kiwifruit using Vital Foods
proprietary processing technology. Studies have confirmed that Phloe improves general digestive health,
minimises episodes of occasional constipation, and assists in reducing abdominal discomfort. Phloe has
few, if any, of the side effects commonly associated with harsher laxatives. It has been recently made a
standard preparation for many patients undergoing radiation therapy for prostate and bowel cancer in New

Page213of259©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Zealand. About Kivia Kivia is the same formulation as Phloe but, if this trial confirms expected efficacy, it
will be marketed internationally with a specific claim for treatment of IBS. About Vital Foods Vital Foods
was established to provide the digestive health benefits of kiwifruit through easy to consume digestive
health products for all ages. The companys first product on the market was Kiwi Crush, a frozen kiwifruit
drink that is sold as a digestive aid in supermarkets in New Zealand. Research into its therapeutic effects
led to the development of Phloe, also based on kiwifruit, which was launched in 2007 and is now available
in pharmacy, healthfood and grocery outlets in New Zealand and is about to be launched globally through
www.digestivephloe.com . Together, the two products currently make up the highest-selling digestive
health product family sold in New Zealand. The new clinical study is a key step towards confirming Kivia
as a treatment of a clinically diagnosed disease internationally, and, in turn, growing opportunities in the
global consumer healthcare market. In mid 2011 Nestle took at 18.2% stake in the company through its
wholly-owned Health Sciences Company. Other shareholders are New Zealands largest kiwifruit
companySeeka Kiwifruit Industries, the venture funds BioPacific Ventures and Inventages, and private
interests. Ends(14 April 2014)

For further information please contact Justus Homburg, Chief Executive, Vital Foods Processors Ltd +64 9
2755073

SOURCE:Vital Foods Processors Ltd

NS

ctrial : New Product/Service Testing | c23 : Research/Development | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News |
npress : Press Releases | ncat : Content Types
austr : Australia | nz : New Zealand | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB Australian Associated Press Pty Ltd
AN Document AAPMPR0020140414ea4e0005l

Page214of259©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.