Interim 2014 Sydney Airport Holdings Ltd Earnings Call - Final

HD Interim 2014 Sydney Airport Holdings Ltd Earnings Call - Final
WC 9,937 words
PD 20 August 2014
SN CQ FD Disclosure
SC FNDW
LA English
CY © 2014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.
LP

Presentation

TD

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the 2014 half year results
conference call. At this time all participants are in a listen only mode. There will be a presentation, followed
by a question and answer session. (Operator instructions).

I must advise you that this conference is being recorded today, August 21 2014. I would now like to hand
the conference over to your speaker today, CEO Kerrie Mather . Thank you and please go ahead.

KERRIE MATHER , CEO, SYDNEY AIRPORT HOLDINGS LIMITED: Good morning and welcome to
Sydney Airport's 2014 interim results. Thank you to everyone for dialling in or listening on our webcast.
Today I'm joined by our CFO Stephen Mentzines .

Slide 3 has the agenda for our presentation today. Firstly I'd like to take you through our half year results,
our performance and our track record, and then Stephen will take you through the financials and capital
management.
I'll then discuss passenger growth and capacity developments, provide an update on our commercial
businesses, the second Sydney airport, and the outlook for the remainder of 2014, and at the end we'll
have time for questions from investors and analysts.

The first half of 2014 saw continued growth and momentum across all our businesses, delivering yield
expansion and revenue growth. EBITDA grew 6.1% on total passenger growth of 2.3% and international
growth of 4.7%.
AUD95 million of capital was invested over the half, continuing the incremental delivery of capacity to
support demand. International traffic performance has been strong and slightly above the long-term trend,
primarily driven by 2.9% seat growth and strong demand from Asian markets.

This half, Sydney Airport made a number of significant announcements, including a joint announcement
with the New South Wales government to improve our roads and ground transport in and around the
airport, the completion of a landmark refinancing, entering new debt markets and extending our average
maturity, and also making good progress towards the finalisation of our duty free retender.

We'll look at all of these in more detail in the presentation.

Slide 5 is a quick snapshot of the first half highlights. As you can see, a very consistent story, with revenue
and EBITDA growth growing in excess of traffic and driving a high distribution. This has positioned us very
well for the remainder of the year.

A distribution guidance of AUD0.235 for 2014 represents headline growth of 4.4% and underlying growth of
8.1%, factoring in one-off revenue from last year.

The 2014 guidance reflects our confidence in robust earnings and distributable cash growth, and
demonstrates our commitment to growing distribution.

Over the last 12 months, Sydney Airport has delivered a total shareholder return of 14%, or longer term, a
five year compound annual return of 28%, an outperformance of 17% against the ASX 200 accumulated
index.

Page153of343©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Slide 7 provides a brief operational overview. So far in 2014 we've delivered 5.7% revenue growth on 2.3%
passenger growth. Good aero performance reflects a strong international passenger growth and
investment in a broad range of aviation capacity expansion projects.

A strong performance in retail is the result of 12 new stores across T1 and T2, the new contemporary feel
in the duty free areas and surrounds, along with significant brand, product, and value proposition
improvements. We're particularly pleased that the new initiatives that we implemented in late 2013 to
address the tobacco changes have translated into a 12.7% increase in the passenger spend rate. This is
an excellent result, and it's helpful to our duty free tender.

We delivered a very good performance from car parking and ground transport as we continue to execute
on our well-defined strategy. The creation of new online offers, addressing our off peak periods and new
markets, supported by our focused marketing program, is improving our car park utilisation and the overall
customer experience. Property, again, has performed strongly through contract escalations and the
establishment of new tenancies.

On slide 8, our strong, stable growth and earnings track record continues the long-term trend. The
consistent delivery is driven by passenger growth, particularly international through our active management
approach; secondly improving yield per passenger through space and capacity development in each
business; third, controlling cost to maintain and improve margins; and finally an efficient financing structure
to ensure we continue to deliver a large proportion of EBITDA to our investors in the form of distributions.

The foundation of our return to investors is therefore not only a high level of distribution but consistent
distribution growth.

I'll now hand over to Stephen to take you through our financials.

STEPHEN MENTZINES , CFO, SYDNEY AIRPORT HOLDINGS LIMITED: Thanks, Kerrie. I'd also like to
add my welcome to all our equity and debt investors and analysts who are listening to the briefing today.

On slide 10, we've presented our income statement with EBITDA reconciled to statutory profit. You can see
the simplification benefits of our restructure last year, with our results now being condensed into two slides
rather than the previous five or six slides that we used to take to present our financial results.

This half year is very much a continuation of our performance over recent years and is consistent with our
strategy, namely passenger growth and other management initiatives translating into solid EBITDA growth.
As Kerrie mentioned, all businesses have performed strongly, leading to total revenue growth of 5.7% on
the prior corresponding period.
Expenses pre-specific items increased by AUD3.9 million or 3.7%, primarily due to our other operational
costs increasing, again relating to higher registry costs resulting from the Macquarie in-specie distribution
and the associated increase in the number of our registered security holders, which went from 35,000
people to 105,000 people. In addition, we had a small cost for maintaining our responsible entity structure
for the staple trust [stat one].
Our services and utility cost increased by AUD1.4 million due to a contracted step up in our cleaning
contract, an increase in car parking cost related to volume increases, and regular CPI increases on our
outsourced contracts. We were able to deliver a reduction in security costs over the period, due to the
discontinuance of one-off costs relating to the installation of our body scanners in the previous period.
Again, note that security costs remain EBITDA neutral.

Specifics are effectively non-recurring items over the period. There's been a significant decrease in
specifics this period due to the restructure last year, the settlement with the Australian Tax Office , and
minority acquisition costs incurred in that period as a result of the simplification and restructure we
undertook.

Again, pleasingly, EBITDA, which is the best measure of our operational performance, increased by 6.1%,
broadly in line with the long term business trend we've been experiencing.

Moving now to our operating cash flows and the distribution reconciliation on slide 11. Now that the airport
is 100% owned by us, there is greater transparency to our distributions, as shown on this slide. Since we
moved to a sole focus on Sydney Airport in 2011, our distribution is fully covered by net operating receipts.

On this slide, the key items to note are -- most of these are reconciling items -- are our normal non-cash
items. There's one large one there for AUD51 million, which is the fair value adjustment related to increase
in our -- related to our swaps, and you can see that on the previous slide, so the finance costs on the
previous slide, on slide 10, have gone up by about AUD50 million, that being the fair value adjustment.

Page154of343©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The real external finance costs remain well controlled with an increase of only 1.8% on the first half of last
year, while the quantum of our debt increased by nearly 4% as a result of the ongoing debt funding of our
CapEx program.
Additionally, our stapled securities on issue have increased over the period due to the acquisition of the
minorities in the second half of 2013, moving us to 100% ownership of the airport, and overall we've
achieved full coverage of our distribution plus cash flow growth despite the issuance of those new
securities. As Kerrie has already covered, the 4.5% growth in distributions for the half culminates in a 14%
total return for investors.

Turning now to our capital management and our refinancing. On slide 12, where we look at our debt capital
structure. We continue to tightly manage our capital and debt metrics. Net debt as at June 30 was AUD6.5
billion, increasing predominantly by our first half of this year capital expenditure of AUD95.5 million.

Our debt metrics continue to improve as EBITDA grows more than two times faster than the growth in our
drawn debt. Pleasingly, then, net debt to EBITDA has fallen to 6.9 times, and our cash flow cover ratio has
increased to 2.3 times, reflecting the continuous deleveraging of our business.

The other point to note here about our average maturity is that we have relatively low to modest refinancing
needs for maturing debt through to 2018. That is, we've got AUD320 million in November of this year,
AUD475 million in 2015, AUD86 million in 2016, and AUD545 million in 2017. Relative to the
refinancings that we've been able to undertake in the last few periods, they're very modest numbers
indeed.

We continue to be highly hedged, with 100% of our currency risk and 91% of our interest rate exposure
hedged as at June 30. We continue to actively monitor markets and manage our hedging levels as part of
our ongoing program.

The average cash interest cost has fallen to 6.2%, primarily as a result of the refinancings we undertook in
2013 and in May of this year, which were all at lower margins, inclusive of currency hedging.

Now, let's look at the refinancing in a little bit more detail in the next slide, on slide 13.
Sydney Airport successfully delivered a landmark AUD2.9 billion refinancing, leading all of our six capital
management objectives, which are well set out and consistent through all of our presentations and related
material. The AUD2.9 billion comprises our initial European bond issuance, EMTN, of AUD1 billion, the
bank debt facilities of AUD1.5 billion, and the recently negotiated US private placement of AUD380
million.

All of those deals priced inside of our current average interest rate. The average maturity has been
lengthened by nearly two years, and the profile, as you can see on the previous slide, has been spread
further.

We've diversified our funding sources by issuing into the European and USPP markets. Both the bank and
the bond deals were oversubscribed and the issue into the European market provides future issuances into
that market.

All of our 2014 maturities were addressed well in advance of the maturity dates, and most importantly, our
BBB rating has been maintained. Overall, our refinancings have further strengthened our capital structure
and created a strong platform for future raisings.

Lastly in the financial section here, on slide 14, we're reaffirming our five year CapEx guidance of AUD1.2
billion, of which AUD95.5 million was invested in the first half of this year. In terms of some of the projects
we've outlined there, these are the key ones. We commenced the first stage of a two year project to
expand the baggage reclaims belt to facilitate additional capacity and ensuring straight through processing
of all luggage with minimal human intervention.

We widened the taxiway around Terminal Two, providing improved facilities for airlines and increased
manoeuvrability for larger wide body aircraft. We undertook improvements to gates and aprons at Terminal
One PSD, providing dual aerobridges for faster boarding, more efficient US destination screening, and
additional gate lounge seating.

Finally, we added more high intensity approach lighting on the northern runway as part of a much broader
overall project to comply with category two regulations and to provide pilots with greater visibility when
landing in poor conditions.

Our CapEx program is progressing well. It's on track and on budget, and with all projects continuously and
obviously being subjected to our capital investment discipline prior to implementation.

Page155of343©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.With that, I'll hand back to Kerrie.

KERRIE MATHER : Thanks, Stephen. Let's take a look at our traffic performance and the trends driving our
aeronautical business on slide 16.

The diversity of our airline customers, nationality markets, and destinations underpins the quality and
strength of our business. We have 38 airlines serving 94 destinations, providing revenue diversification and
reduced risk.

Our airline mix has changed over time. The majority of European airlines which serviced Sydney 15 years
ago have been more than replaced, predominantly by Asian and Middle Eastern carriers, and yet now
we're serving double the one stop destinations in Europe compared to 10 years ago.

This is illustrated on the top right, which shows the incremental growth during the period from our top 10
markets.

In addition to the Middle Eastern/Asian growth, low cost carriers have opened up new markets. The pie
chart shows the top 15 nationalities for this half. Australian outbound makes up 46%, and there's a wide
spread of nationalities making up the remainder.

On slide 17, passenger growth over the half has been strong, particularly international growth of 4.7%.
International passenger growth and aero investment has driven 5.7% aero revenue growth. Of the AUD95
million invested during the half, more than two thirds has been in aviation capacity.
We continue to benefit from Asian nationality market growth, particularly greater China, Malaysia, and
India. In addition we've seen significant recent capacity announcements, and highlights include Cebu
Pacific Air, adding 227,000 seats annually, and Cathay Pacific , with 72,000 seats annually, as well as
China Airlines adding 54,000 seats over the peak season. A number of these up-gauged services will
begin in the second half.

Domestic growth has been more subdued, however we expect in the near term to continue to see load
factor improvement as previous capacity growth is absorbed. We also expect to see a continuation of low
cost carrier growth based on the full year effect of route announcements from Tiger Air and Jetstar, which
of course will benefit T2.

Today we released our July traffic numbers, which reflected the cycling of the British Lions rugby tour in
June and July last year. Normalising for the Lions impact, international traffic has grown 4.1% year to date.

Looking forward, we expect to see the same tail winds to continue, globalisation driving more demand for
air travel, economic growth feeding growing Asian demand, and air fares reducing due to continually
increasingly efficient aircraft and more low cost carriers.

Low cost carriers have been a great story, if we turn to slide 18. Sydney Airport is now Australia's largest
international low cost carrier airport, having been the fourth largest just two years ago. Prior to the launch
of AirAsia X and Scoot in 2012, Jetstar was the only low cost carrier operating international flights from
Sydney. Currently, low cost long haul carriers have 96 wide body aircraft on order. 93% of these have been
ordered by Asia Pacific carriers.

This provides an insight into future growth opportunities, and we're well positioned to capture growth from
Asian market expansion. We were delighted that Cebu Pacific announced in June that Sydney will be their
first Australian destination, flying four times weekly from September and increasing to five by November.

Cebu Pacific is Philippines' largest airline, serving a network of 34 domestic and 26 international
destinations. The service will provide an additional 226,800 seats a year on the Sydney-Manila route.

In response, Philippine Airlines has announced increased frequency on their Manila-Sydney service, from
four weekly services to daily -- to five from October. The seats will be operated on A340 aircraft, resulting in
a 25% seat increase, or 38,000 additional seats per annum. This is another great example, along with
Singapore and Malaysia, of low cost carriers stimulating capacity, and in turn market growth for both low
cost and full service carriers.
Let me update you on our commercial activity on slide 20. Revenues are evenly spread between
aeronautical and commercial activities as you can see on the top right, and on the bottom left our
commercial revenues are underpinned by a diverse mix of businesses, leases, and tenants. Commercial
activities are wide ranging from retail and property through to car parking. Within these commercial
businesses, we have around 500 leases to a wide variety of tenants.

Page156of343©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.In addition, the airport has over 16,000 car spaces through the domestic and international precincts. They
serve both business and leisure passengers, long stay and short stay, and the meeter/greeter market.

Our diverse portfolio generates balanced revenues and natural hedges, providing downside protection, and
in addition, the majority of our contracts include annual escalations.

On slide 21, Retail revenue grew 7.4% during the first half. This strong performance reflects increased
passenger penetration and the complete cycling of tobacco law changes. And as I mentioned, we're very
pleased that new duty free initiatives implemented late last year have driven a significant increase in spend
rates ahead of the duty free retender.

Significant work on new opportunities is underway. We'll be opening three new tenancies in Terminal One
at the end of the year, introducing Nando's and Toby's Estate.

Secondly, the advertising contracts for T1, T2 and externals are up for retender next year, and this is a
significant contract for the airport.

Lastly, we'll commence a review and repositioning of the T1 and T2 food and beverage offerings.

Now to an update on our duty free retender on slide 22. The duty free contract is one of our most important
at airport accounting for nearly 13% of total revenue. It's also an important amenity for passengers.

The offering currently comprises six duty free outlets at T1, occupying 7600 square metres of retail space,
plus a domestic tax paid shop at T2. The current contract expires in February 2015.

The requested proposal was launched in April, which saw a number of the bidders taken through from the
expression of interest stage to the next round of the process, and now we've shortlisted three operators.

The bid structure allows for one or more operators to trade at the airport, which has stimulated strong
interest in the tender. We have received an unprecedented level of interest, and the calibre of submissions
has been extremely high.

We expect to be in a position to announce the winning operator or operators before the end of the calendar
year.

Moving to car parking and ground transport on slide 23. Revenues were 5.7% higher than PCP, a strong
performance relative to 1.2% domestic passenger growth. Domestic traffic drives over 60% of our car
parking revenues.

Online bookings now contribute around 28% of car parking revenues, a phenomenal growth in three years
from a standing start. In this period, online revenue grew over 41%.

Growth has been driven by three new markets. Domestic leisure, particularly weekends. International long
stay by both business and leisure, and the online quick trip product, targeting the meeter/greeter.

We expect continued online growth as more passengers become aware of the cost savings and
convenience. Car parking revenues also benefitted from the new P3 car park with 965 spaces in domestic,
taking total on airport spaces to around 16,000.

Another catalyst in this business will of course be the investment we're making in ground transport, which
I'll cover shortly.
Property and car rental revenue, on slide 24, grew strongly, up 6.8% for the half, driven by contracted
escalations and new tenancies. The demand for on airport space continues to be strong, with occupancy at
around 98%.

We continue to manage over 300 leases from a diverse range of tenants in freight, offices, airline lounges,
car rental, airline facilities, and other uses. In this period alone, 278 rental reviews were completed,
resulting in a rental returns uplift of 4.2%.
Pleasingly, new leases accounted for almost half of our property revenue growth.

Our strategy remains to focus on pursuing selected development opportunities in response to demand. We
are progressing a number of new opportunities, including firstly the potential for two new hotels on airport
following the success of the opening of Rydges last year.

Secondly, the retender of the car rental contract, and lastly the construction of the Alexandra Canal Bridge,
which will join our northern lands to the main airport, allowing development of up to 30 hectares for future
aero and commercial opportunities.

Page157of343©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.There is a significant amount of activity underway in all our commercial businesses to capitalise on
opportunities. We've committed to consistent improvement in our facilities and the customer experience.

Let me run through our key priorities for 2014.

On slide 26, ground transport is a major focus for us, airlines, passengers and staff. As a result, we jointly
announced with New South Wales Government a combined investment of almost AUD500 million to
improve traffic flow in and around Sydney Airport as part of a suite of ground transport solutions and airport
facility upgrades.

The government will be responsible for the investment in roads surrounding the airport, and Sydney Airport
will carry out the upgrades within the airport precinct.

Our proposed investment contemplates initiatives that include transformative roadworks at T1 and T2/T3, a
ground transport interchange, and multimodal storage and car parking facility.

Sydney Airport's forecast CapEx for ground access improvements for 2018 is included in the five year
CapEx guidance that Stephen went through before. These investments are expected to be recovered
through the normal aero and commercial mechanisms.

On slide 27, a number of improvements have already been completed at T1, including widening the
curbside lane on Departures Road, a reconfigured entry at Link Road, and extending the drop off area on
Departures Road. The changes have already improved T1 traffic circulation.

The next stage of improvements at T1 has commenced, involving a new road, a new city exit, traffic lights,
and expanded taxi and limo areas. Works are targeted for delivery in December.

Commencement of works at T2/T3 is awaiting approval of our major development plan, expected at the
end of this year, however planning and preparation have commenced. These works will dramatically
improve traffic flow, intersection, and travel times to Sydney Airport.

On slide 28, technology is critical to improving the passenger experience, airline products, and importantly,
lowering their operating costs. In collaboration with our airline partners and relevant government bodies,
we've introduced additional technology in International Arrivals, now with 33 kiosks (sic - see slide 28, "28")
and 22 smart gates.

This enables eligible passport holders to use ePassport data and facial recognition to perform the customs
and immigrations checks rather than customs officers. The technology establishes identity in 38 seconds,
significantly speeding up the immigration process.

Initially rolled out for Australians and now six of our major nationality groups, there will be further rollout to
more nationalities in the near term.

We've completed our international self-service check in trials. These were well received by airlines and
passengers and the initiative is now being rolled out to six airlines, with more to come.

Airline collaborations and our continued technology roll out will achieve faster passenger processing and
more efficient capacity, reduced airline operating costs and space required for passenger processing, and
importantly, an improved customer experience.

Turning now to an update on the second Sydney airport and our outlook.
Following the announcement in April that Badgerys Creek will be the site for the new airport, the Australian
Government has established the Western Sydney Unit within the Department of Infrastructure and
Regional Development to implement this decision.

The Western Sydney Unit will also be responsible for undertaking consultation with local councils, the
community, and other stakeholders, including the aviation industry.

Recently the government announced it had appointed Clayton Utz as their legal advisors, and Ernst and
Young, together with LEK, GHD, and Landrum and Brown to be their business advisors.
This team will provide specialist, legal, aviation, design, and commercial expertise to support the
government on the airport development. And the New South Wales Government has also established the
Western Sydney Infrastructure Plan to develop and deliver critical road infrastructure in advance of the
airport.
AUD3.5 billion of investment in infrastructure upgrades will be jointly funded by the Australian and New
South Wales governments. You can see the significant planned works on this slide.

Page158of343©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The Badgerys Creek site sits in the middle of major road upgrades for Bringelly Road and the Northern
Road and the construction of the proposed east-west airport motorway linking the M7 and the Northern
Road. In addition, the New South Wales Government is progressing with consultation on the south-west
rail link extension and the preservation of a rail corridor. This rail line is expected to service the Western
Sydney Airport in the future.
And what does all this mean for Sydney Airport? Well I'm sure many of you are aware, under the 2002
Sydney Airport sale agreement, we acquired a right of first refusal to develop and operate a second airport
within 100km of Sydney CBD. The right of first refusal sets out a number of phases, including a
consultative phase and a subsequent contractual phase -- a process which the government expects to take
up to two years.

This week, the Australian Government formally invited Sydney Airport to participate in the consultation
process on the development and operation of the Western Sydney Airport. We accepted the invitation and
the nine month consultation period starts on September 30. The development of the second airport is a
major, complex and long term infrastructure project which is expected to be operational in the mid-2020s.
So since April, we've been engaged in preliminary discussions with the department and we've begun to
map the considerable work that needs to be addressed during the consultation period.

In addition, to supplement the extensive and global experience we have internally, we've selected a team
of experts to assist us to evaluate the opportunity. The work program through the consultation period to
support the business case development will include passenger forecasts, demographics, airport design and
operation, planning and commercial development, environmental analysis and funding and financial
modelling. This work is being done so we can fully evaluate the opportunity and prepare ourselves for the
next phase of the process.

Following the end of the formal consultation, the Australian Government will formulate a full proposal after
which it may enter a contractual phase which would involve issuing Sydney Airport a notice of intention,
setting out the material terms for the development and operation of the Western Sydney Airport. The
government would then allow Sydney Airport between four and nine months to consider the option. If we do
not exercise the option, other potential operators may be offered the proposal on the same terms.

Finally, our outlook on slide 35 (sic - see slide "32"). Well 2014 has started strongly. Through 2014 and
2015 we will continue to focus on traffic development targeting underserved markets, while constantly
improving the passenger experience. We're excited by the amount of activity and upcoming opportunity
currently being executed in all of our businesses.

The focus of each initiative is not only to drive yield improvement but to invest in airport facilities to meet
future demand and deliver business expansion. All major activities currently underway, including the
duty-free retender and ground transport program are on track and progressing well. So the guidance of
AUD1.2 billion of airport investment to 2018 is reaffirmed.

We have a strong balance sheet and our successful recent refinance, demonstrates a significant demand
for Sydney Airport debt. Our consistently improving credit metrics reflect the stability of our cash flows and
the natural de-gearing within the business. Sydney Airport is well positioned to capture future traffic growth
potential and commercial opportunities and our confidence has today allowed us to reaffirm our
distribution guidance of AUD0.235 for the year.

That concludes our presentation. So I thank you, to those who are leaving now, for joining us today, but
otherwise we'd be happy to take some questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator instructions) Your first question comes from a line of Simon Mitchell of UBS .
Simon, please ask your question.

SIMON MITCHELL, ANALYST, UBS : Good morning. A question Kerrie on the second airport if I could.
You mentioned that you've established a team of internal and external experts and I imagine there's quite a
lot of work to do. Can you touch on the likely costs of this whole process and how we should be thinking
about any impact on distributions?

KERRIE MATHER : Well it's very early days in terms of the process. We've only just accepted the invitation
to consult with the government so we're very much in a consultation phase at the moment. We have, as
you'll appreciate, a very experienced internal team who have a significant amount of global experience
around airports.

Page159of343©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.So apart from our internal resources that we've applied to the project, we have also commissioned small
pieces of work from external experts. And in the same manner that we normally do with any major projects,
those costs will be capitalized to the project, so no material impact on distribution.

SIMON MITCHELL: Okay, and just on the international airlines, can you touch on the discussions there?
And given your cost of funding continues to fall, how that is likely to be reflected in the charges going
forward?
KERRIE MATHER : Well aero charges are, as you know, determined by commercial agreements with the
airlines under our light handed regulatory regime. The current agreement that we have with the
international airlines doesn't expire until the very end of June 2015 so over the next half we will commence
discussions with the airlines.

So in terms of your question around our cost of debt, while we've seen some marginal improvement
actually in our cost of debt, at the end of the day, only 15% of our debt actually matures in any one year.
So there hasn't been a material change in our cost of debt.

And that is of course just one input into any charges agreement. The other things that we'll have to
consider will be future traffic growth, the associated operating costs that the volume growth implies, capital
investments. So all of this will be determined in consultation with the airlines.

SIMON MITCHELL: Alright, thank you.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Scott Kelly from Morgan Stanley . Scott, please
ask your question

SCOTT KELLY, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY : Good morning Kerrie and good morning Steve. Just a
question on the passenger spend rate increase. You mentioned that was primarily due to the duty free
changes that you implemented six to 12 months ago, is that correct?

KERRIE MATHER : Yes, that's right.

SCOTT KELLY: So there's nothing else driving that, it was primarily the duty free changes?

KERRIE MATHER : As you recall, when we -- following the tobacco law changes that actually occurred in
the previous year, in consultation with the duty free operator, we sat down to actually look at a package of
changes that would focus on addressing the gap that that tobacco actually created before the contract
actually matured.

So what we've seen there is as a result of changes in layout, some new products, some remerchandising,
repositioning. It's just there's no big bang in there, it's just been a large series of small changes that have
actually made a significant difference actually in the passenger spend rate. So we've seen the combination
of increased patronage if you like. So, increased passenger penetration but also an increase in
transaction value.

SCOTT KELLY: Okay. And also just going back to -- you put a chart, a couple of years ago you put a chart
in your investor day that showed Australia outbound as about 48% of the total and the chart in today's
presentation says 46%, so sort of a small swing. Is that primarily being driven by the growth out of Asia?

KERRIE MATHER : Yes, largely Asia and the Middle East. It does move around a little bit from time to
time, depending on when capacity editions come through and holidays. But it's roughly half half so it hasn't
materially changed. We have a -- we've always had roughly a similar rate of inbound outbound.

SCOTT KELLY: Yes. Okay, my last question, just to Steve if I can. I was just wondering if you could run me
through your decision to leave Sydney Airport please.

STEPHEN MENTZINES : Yes sure, thanks Scott. Look, I've really enjoyed the role here immensely. We've
had a phenomenal year and a half or so, or two years since I joined around the restructure, the acquisition
of minorities really setting our capital structure up very well. And just looking purely to do something a bit
broader and leverage my experience a bit more. It's as simple as that. It's a great role and I'll be looking for
something else basically.

KERRIE MATHER : Steve's going to be around for a little bit longer.
STEPHEN MENTZINES : Yes, I'm here until the end of the year.

KERRIE MATHER : But we certainly wish him well for his future.

SCOTT KELLY: Okay, thank you very much.

Page160of343©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Matt Spence from Merrill Lynch . Matt, please ask
your question.

MATTHEW SPENCE, ANALYST, BOA MERRILL LYNCH : Hi guys, hi Kerrie. Kerrie, thanks for the stats
on some of those seat additions into Sydney. Can you tell us what's happening on the net basis because
obviously we've had Sing take some capacity out, Virgin Atlantic , China Southern. What's happening on a
net basis, seats in say second half 2014?

KERRIE MATHER : It's difficult to actually distil it down to a growth rate just because of the timing of when
some of these uplifts actually come through. But I think, having come through a period of very significant
capacity growth really over the last 12 months, in the near term we'd expect to see load factor improvement
but there are a number of capacity additions coming through. So I tried to give a sense of the timing of
some of those and there are a large number of them, progressively actually coming through from
September through to mid-next year.

MATTHEW SPENCE: But is it net positive or net negative do you think at the moment?

KERRIE MATHER : Look, we're pretty positive about the outlook but it's very difficult to actually distil it
down to a particular rate at the moment just because of the timing of when this capacity actually comes
through.

MATTHEW SPENCE: Okay. Just on your dividend policy, so you've got this number our there as
AUD0.235 and saying that it will be backed by net operating receipts. Can I just ask, what overrides the
other -- if net operating receipts are better and hit AUD0.24 does the dividends automatically go to
AUD0.24 or what overrides the other?

KERRIE MATHER : Well we haven't actually provided any guidance beyond the AUD0.235. Our policy
remains that we distribute our net operating receipts.

MATTHEW SPENCE: Yes I know, but those two statements conflict with each other. Because if you do
distribute all of your net operating receipts, then the AUD0.235 doesn't stand. If you get better, those two
statements can be not consistent with each other.

KERRIE MATHER : Well I think look, if you had material outperformance then that would obviously
translate into an improved distribution outcome, but we haven't guided beyond the AUD0.235.

MATTHEW SPENCE: Okay.

STEPHEN MENTZINES : It would have to be really significant to occur in the last few months of the year
as well that they could be different to our distributable cash flow as well Matt.

MATTHEW SPENCE: Yes, fair point. Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Paul Mason from RBC. Paul, please ask your
question.
PAUL MASON, ANALYST, RBC: Hi guys, I just have two questions on the property business. Just want to
get a feel for the timing on the potential two new hotel developments that you've mentioned. I know they're
in the master plan, but if you've got any idea -- like is that next year or toward the end of a five year period?

KERRIE MATHER : Well they're more 2015 opportunities, so we'll be going out for expressions of interest
on the smaller one of the two. So the two to three star hotel towards the end of the year and in relation to
the four to five star hotel, that's captured in the major development plan that's actually out on public display
at the moment. So that will be hopefully approved at the end of this year and then you go through a
planning beyond that.

PAUL MASON: Okay, and then the other question I had is just on the -- once the construction of the bridge
over the Alexandra Canal is built, can you give us a bit of an idea of what specifically you're looking to
develop there? Is it just, kind of, office space or are you actually looking at building some kind of
aeronautical assets there as well?

KERRIE MATHER : Look, potential logistics in, you know, airport services, there could be catering. So in
the long term, catering facilities, logistics facilities, other potential commercial opportunities.

STEPHEN MENTZINES : Storage.

KERRIE MATHER : Yes, there could be rental car storage, that sort of thing.

STEPHEN MENTZINES : Yes.

Page161of343©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PAUL MASON: Okay, all right. That's it from me, thanks.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Cameron McDonald from Deutsche Bank .
Cameron, please ask your question.

CAMERON MCDONALD , ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK : Good morning Kerrie, good morning Stephen.
Just a quick question on just the outlook around -- probably following on a little bit from one of the previous
questions. We've seen some of the traditional mainline carriers if you like trying to pull back capacity, both
domestically and internationally, but are you seeing that as an opportunity to then provide further slot
capacity to some of these emerging Asian based in particular, I suppose, low cost carriers and Middle
Eastern carriers that are wanting access to the market? So therefore you're not necessarily seeing that
capacity, sort of, contraction come through your numbers. Then on top of that, you end up with a better
revenue mix, given that the low cost carriers tend to spend more per passenger through things like duty
free?

KERRIE MATHER : Look, I think there's a couple of themes that you've actually touched on there. Firstly in
relation to our capacity, we've got plenty of capacity. We've -- our current movement cap implies 500,000
movements available a year. We're using 327,000 and actually that's broadly -- it hasn't -- it's only changed
by about 5% really over the last 10 to 12 years.

In relation to the mix of our traffic, I think that's a really interesting opportunity for us because what we are
seeing is a significant growth in the number of passengers per movement and a combination of larger
aircraft and the low cost carriers are actually driving that utilisation and therefore a more efficient utilisation
of our overall asset.

Low cost carriers have actually now grown from two years ago about 5% of our market to now up to 10%.
So we've -- so with Cebu Pacific coming in we'll really have the top four Asia, Asia Pacific low cost carriers
but there are many more that are establishing themselves in Asia and who have indicated an interest in
actually coming to Australia.

So I think they are an opportunity and as you say, they tend to actually focus on off peak periods and
they've certainly used our infrastructure very efficiently because of the way they focus on getting the
productivity out of their aircraft and ensuring they're in the -- you know, spend most of the time in the air
rather than on the ground.

So yes, I think a number of trends in there that are very positive for both our asset utilisation and in terms
of our yield going forward.

CAMERON MCDONALD : Just a second question, to the extent that you can comment, there's obviously
speculation around the Qantas terminal which seems to be an annual event. They're clearly -- Qantas has
already transacted in Brisbane. Are we right to think that we're incrementally closer to a transaction here?

KERRIE MATHER : Look I think it's difficult to say. We're certainly every half year incrementally closer to
2019 when the lease actually reverts, but we are in ongoing discussions with Qantas around that, but
there's really no material update.

CAMERON MCDONALD : Okay, thanks Kerrie.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Scott Ryall of CLSA. Scott, please ask your
question.

SCOTT RYALL, ANALYST, CLSA: Thank you. Most of mine have been done, but I was just wondering if
you could give an update -- apologies if you mentioned it at the start, Kerrie -- on the aeronautical
negotiations please.

KERRIE MATHER : Well the international agreements don't expire until the end of June next year.

SCOTT RYALL: Yes.

KERRIE MATHER : So the plan is to actually commence discussions with the airlines actually during the
next half. You know, we'd be looking for something that not only incentivises volume growth from the
airlines but also delivers an appropriate return on investment to -- for the infrastructure and service
priorities that the airlines will actually have -- that we will be looking to capture as part of that agreement.

SCOTT RYALL: Okay, so you haven't done anything active on that front at the moment?

KERRIE MATHER : No.

Page162of343©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.SCOTT RYALL: Just to Cam's question just now, is it fair or otherwise to assume that the Qantas
negotiations, given they tend to take a leadership role in the aeronautical side negotiations, will they be an
important factor as part of their overall negotiations with respect to their own terminal and jet base?

KERRIE MATHER : No, they're completely separate. So we've got 38 international airlines here, (inaudible)
in relation to those negotiations on behalf of the airlines. As our home base carrier here, Qantas , we do
have a very good working relationship with them but those are separate.

SCOTT RYALL: Okay, great. How -- as you start this half year, as we expecting finalisation this calendar
year or is that, kind of, early next year as well?

KERRIE MATHER : Well it doesn't expire until the end of June to start on July 1, so it will be closer to then.

SCOTT RYALL: Closer to that expiry. Okay good, thank you. That's all I had, thanks.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Ian Myles from Macquarie. Ian, please ask your
question.

IAN MYLES, ANALYST, MACQUARIE: Just a quick one or a couple of questions. Just a quick one
following on from Scott's one there, what happens if you don't get agreement by expiry? What's the default
outcome? In terms of your aeronautical negotiation.

KERRIE MATHER : Sorry?

STEPHEN MENTZINES : Ian's question was, what's the default position if we don't reach agreement by
June 30, 2015.

KERRIE MATHER : Yes, it defaults to the conditions of use.

IAN MYLES: Which would mean no price rise or you still have ability to put price rise through on necessary
new investment?

KERRIE MATHER : Well as you -- yes, that's right. So a continuing price adjustment associated with any
new investment actually through the period.

IAN MYLES: Okay. Pardon my ignorance, how much does the bridge over a canal cost?
KERRIE MATHER : It's about AUD12 million.

IAN MYLES: Okay, and that's non-aeronautical -- is that non-aeronautical?

STEPHEN MENTZINES : No.
KERRIE MATHER : No, it's commercial.
IAN MYLES: Okay, it's commercial. In terms of the development in the second airport, I think you said at
the beginning in the questions that you would capitalise the sort of the investments there. How significant
are those costs going to be? Because there would seem to be a lot of consultants which are going to be
required to bring this to a point of making a firm, sort of a firm offer to you and I was just sort of wondering,
what quantum of capitalised amounts are going to be there?
KERRIE MATHER : Look, it's just too early to say, and remember the government's actually taking the lead
on this. So they've employed a large number of consultants and I ran through who they were. So --

IAN MYLES: So are you employing any consultants or are you just providing your senior management and
your management skill?

KERRIE MATHER : No, we have. We've employed some specialist consultants actually, some
demographic traffic consultants and planning consultants and so on. But they're -- it's not significant
numbers actually involved in all of that.

IAN MYLES: Okay. Can they actually -- they can't actually put through into aeronautical pricing at any point
down the path? In a similar way that Brisbane does with its runway.

KERRIE MATHER : Yes that's right. Yes.

IAN MYLES: So --

KERRIE MATHER : For any element that's actually related to the master planning.

Page163of343©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IAN MYLES: Okay. Look, finally just on the duty free, you did a -- you had a great performance this period.
How much closer are you to the actual moving into a performance payment? I don't expect you to
necessarily get there, but how close have you actually got to that hurdle, given the improvements this half?

KERRIE MATHER : It's not appropriate to comment while we're actually in discussions actually with the
tenderers.
Just back to your question actually on the bridge, so just -- because there's a -- it is largely commercial,
but there -- the uses haven't actually been determined at this stage, so it's possible there will be an
aeronautical component in there as well.

IAN MYLES: Okay. Thanks Kerrie.
OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Nathan Lead from Morgans. Nathan, please ask
your question.
NATHAN LEAD, ANALYST, MORGANS: Sorry, I just wanted to ask a question just on your hedge book,
just on the maturity profile of it. Last I sort of saw, I thought it was due to sort of have quite a bit of a run
down over the next couple years and I suppose therefore provide you with a bit more exposure there to the
low interest rates at the moment. So just wonder whether you can give an update on that front.
STEPHEN MENTZINES : Yes I'm not sure our hedge book is actually publicised anywhere, but typically --
we've got a hedging policy and typically what we are is very heavily hedged in the near term obviously to
protect the distributions in the next one or two periods, and then that sort of progressively falls off.

But the thing that I would say is we're constantly looking at the markets and obviously at the moment,
markets are very favourable because base rates are sort of at very low levels. So we're sort of -- always
reviewing those opportunities and when the right time to execute is, is what I would say.
NATHAN LEAD: Thanks.

KERRIE MATHER : (Technical difficulty).

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Carolyn Hellman (sic) - from JP Morgan . Carolyn,
please ask your question.

CAROLYN HOLMES, ANALYST, JP MORGAN : Thanks very much. Hi Kerrie, hi Stephen. Just a couple of
questions in terms of the CapEx profile going forward. The AUD1.2 billion, I think the majority of us try and
smooth over the period. Is it fair to say, is it going to be quite lumpy or is the smoothed approach
appropriate given that you only spent the AUD96 million in the first half?
KERRIE MATHER : We haven't -- we've said that if you averaged it, it'll be AUD240 million a year, but
there will be some years where it's actually probably closer to AUD200 million and then others where it
might be closer to AUD300 million. We do expect that we're still on track it's just a timing issue in relation
to the project. So we would expect to be in line with our expectation for this year.

CAROLYN HOLMES: Okay.

KERRIE MATHER : It does depend on planning approvals and things like that. So sometimes there can
just be a bit sort of a timing slippage, but --

CAROLYN HOLMES: Yes.

KERRIE MATHER : But you know the projects, there's no change actually in the anticipation of the projects
that will be included in there.

STEPHEN MENTZINES : Another two points, Carolyn, is that we said this in February as well, that
obviously it's relatively smooth over the five years, but as Kerrie said, you know, there's kind of no AUD100
million year, there's no AUD400 million year. It's in that range of AUD200 million and AUD300 million.
The other thing is there's no big lumpy projects in excess of AUD50 million or well in excess of AUD50
million in that AUD1.2 billion, that sort of makeup. It's a range of things including the things that we
foreshadowed at the December release or announcement in February this year and also that Kerrie's
outlined here today in terms of what we're planning and doing over that full half, the remaining full half year.

CAROLYN HOLMES: Yes. As a rule of thumb, should we still continue to use about two thirds of the
CapEx being for aeronautical capacity type of initiatives?

KERRIE MATHER : Yes.

Page164of343©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CAROLYN HOLMES: Yes? Then in -- if I go back a few years, I think as a rule of thumb again, we used to
use that cash flow available for distribution incorporated a maintenance CapEx provision and I think we
were all told around and about, about 10% of CapEx. Is that still -- should we still be assuming that in the --
how you get to your cash flow available includes some kind of maintenance CapEx provision?
STEPHEN MENTZINES : It's not 10% of CapEx but it's around AUD15 million per annum, Carolyn.

CAROLYN HOLMES: Okay, so that was -- that's still happening. So we should still allow for that.

STEPHEN MENTZINES : It's around the same. It's around the same. It hasn't changed.

CAROLYN HOLMES: Cool. All right, and my last question, just an update in terms of your thoughts on the
timing of the integrated terminal, how far into the future are we still looking for that now?

KERRIE MATHER : Well, (inaudible) these things are always difficult to determine. It depends on demand.
If -- it can't happen before Terminal Three. So it really depends on demand. But as you can see, from the
AUD1.5 billion -- AUD1.2 billion guidance that we've actually given and as Stephen said, there's no really
large projects in there --

CAROLYN HOLMES: Right, so it's not in the next five years.

KERRIE MATHER : Yes, that's right.

CAROLYN HOLMES: So it's still somewhere out there. It's still -- that is your ultimate strategy, to have an
integrated terminal and irrespective of what's happened with Badgerys Creek, you're still set that longer
term, you'd like to see that eventuate.

KERRIE MATHER : Yes that's right. I mean this is after extensive consultation with the airlines, but also it's
the most efficient utilisation of the facilities here. It provides actually more infrastructure than we would
have had actually under previous plans, and it will deliver a much better passenger experience.
CAROLYN HOLMES: Yes. My last question, in terms of just the non-aeronautical side and the commercial
land and the opportunity to actually have more non-aeronautical facilities, can you give us an idea in terms
of the land size that you're dealing with? What is the potential, because obviously, we all look at Auckland
Airport and we look at their potential to become an airport city, as such. You know, how do we compare
that when we look at actually Sydney? So what is the unused available land that you can actually then
redevelop into commercial use?

KERRIE MATHER : Well there's actually -- unlike other airports that might actually have a whole precinct
that's available --

CAROLYN HOLMES: Yes.

KERRIE MATHER : Constrained (inaudible).

CAROLYN HOLMES: A little, yes.

KERRIE MATHER : We have -- there are pockets of land actually available across the airport. So we just
talked about the northern lands which is -- actually it's bigger than 30 hectares but we're assuming 30
hectares would be accessible from the northern land bridge. You know, you've got the area around the jet
base as well. There are pockets across the airport.

But given our proximity to the CBD, eight kilometres from the CBD, it's just -- it is extremely valuable land.
So our approach, relative to many other airports, is rather than actually having that more campus style
development, it's going to be a more vertical development.

CAROLYN HOLMES: Yes.

KERRIE MATHER : So rather than looking at it in hectares, we tend to sort of think about it in terms of the
square metres that we could actually develop. It will depend on the demand for the -- whether it's office
space or logistics or whatever it is.

CAROLYN HOLMES: Yes. Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Michael Newbold from CIMB. Michael, please ask
your question.

MICHAEL NEWBOLD, ANALYST, CIMB: Thanks. Morning guys. Just quickly two questions. Firstly on duty
free, you were asking to bid on the -- you're taking three parties through, you asked them to bid on three, I

Page165of343©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.think, options and then there were two other optional bids. Can you may be talk to just whether that's still a
part of the bid structure and potentially how you're seeing things in terms of the flexibility or -- of the
footprint of how they're approaching the actual bids? Sorry, that was a bit rambly.

The second question was just around the aeronautical revenue. It was a 5.7% growth on 4.7% I think traffic
growth. Normally see a bit more sort of leverage there. Can you may be talk to why that didn't come
through quite as strongly?

KERRIE MATHER : Well in terms of the first question, I suppose this is a very significant contract and it
occupies a significant part of the terminal. So it has been an opportunity to look at how the terminal
operates to understand the passenger experience. So we've spent quite a bit of time with the airlines as
part of that process to understand how we could actually improve the operation of the terminal and the
facilitation within it.

So in terms of the options available, that's what we've been evaluating as part of the process and so it's too
early to actually articulate where we are in that process. But I can assure you, to the extent that we're
making any changes, they will -- any investment that we're making would have to satisfy our very strict
investment criteria and to ensure that it actually meets the airline requirements.

On -- in terms of the aero, we've got the same domestic dilution, if you want to call it that. So roughly the
same composition, and because we had a relatively sort of moderate period of investment, that's what's
reflected actually in that growth rate.

MICHAEL NEWBOLD: I thought the aeronautical investment contributed about 3.3% of that revenue
growth. So I thought that that was reasonably significant in the scheme of things.

KERRIE MATHER : That's roughly about right, but that's just for international. So you know, yes you're
right, I think the NNI increase was about just over AUD0.60, AUD0.64 for the period. But international's just
part of the pie, if you like.

MICHAEL NEWBOLD: Right, but it's the major part of the aeronautical revenue and there's a real driver for
that line item, isn't it?

STEPHEN MENTZINES : Yes.

KERRIE MATHER : Yes. Yes it is.

MICHAEL NEWBOLD: So if it was running at 4.7% when domestic was relatively flat, I mean we've seen
domestic being relatively flat for the last couple of periods. I just would have thought that that would be
stronger, given where international growth has been.

KERRIE MATHER : Yes. Well there's a small amount of incentive in there for new airlines that have
actually established service, but these are relatively small incentives and they're only for a very short
period. But other than that, you're seeing that just the combination of the mix between domestic and
international and the impact of NNI for the period.

MICHAEL NEWBOLD: So those incentives will roll off over the next six months, (inaudible) incentives --

KERRIE MATHER : (Inaudible) over time.

MICHAEL NEWBOLD: Right. Okay. Okay thanks for that.

KERRIE MATHER : Okay --

OPERATOR: There are no further questions at this time. Please continue.

KERRIE MATHER : Okay, so that concludes our presentation today. Thank you for joining us.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this
web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other
forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon
current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those
stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more
specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and
believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the
assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results
contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

Page166of343©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF
THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE
AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR
INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO
WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE
COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE
BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND
THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER
DECISIONS.]

i764 : Airports | iairtr : Air Transport | itsp : Transportation/Shipping

CO mcqair : Sydney Airport Holdings Ltd | mcqbnk : Macquarie Group Limited
IN
NS c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin :
C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter

RE usa : United States | austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | brisbn : Brisbane | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :

Australia/Oceania | namz : North America | nswals : New South Wales | queensl : Queensland

PUB CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
AN Document FNDW000020140823ea8k000xd

Page167of343©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.