U.S. Investors Regain Appetite for Funding Asia Buyouts; Financing of KKR Buyout of Singapore Company Was First Since Financial Crisis

SE
HD

BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
ED
LA
CY
LP

TD

Markets
U.S. Investors Regain Appetite for Funding Asia Buyouts; Financing of KKR Buyout of
Singapore Company Was First Since Financial Crisis
By Prudence Ho
697 words
17 September 2014
03:30
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

U.S. investors are funding Asian buyouts for the first time since the financial crisis.
To help finance its purchase of a Singapore packaging company, U.S. private-equity firm KKR & Co.
recently secured $720 million from U.S. institutional investors, whose renewed risk appetite and search
for yield has opened them to such deals in Asia.

That deal has spurred more interest in getting U.S. investors to finance Asian buyouts.

"More than half of deals that we are working on in the pipeline [in Australia and Asia] involve exploring
solutions in the U.S. debt markets," said Siong Ooi, head of syndicated and leveraged finance for the
Asian-Pacific region at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in Hong Kong.
KKR secured about three-quarters of the funding it needed for its $1.1 billion purchase of Goodpack
Ltd. in a leveraged loan, where the debt sits with the packaging firm. To do so, it turned to the
term-loan B market, a favored source of funding among private-equity buyers in the West, in which
institutional investors with greater appetites for risk lend directly to borrowers.

That market has been growing again after a dramatic slump six years ago, at the beginning of the
financial crisis. It has reached volumes of $340 billion so far this year, compared with $70.7 billion
during the same period in 2008, according to Dealogic.

Until recently, almost all such loans backed by institutional investors were to U.S. companies, and when
the investors did look to the Asian-Pacific region, it was to Australia, particularly because of its
English-language legal framework, which gave them more confidence.

One of the biggest loans made by U.S. investors in the Asian-Pacific region in recent years was the
$4.95 billion to Australian iron-ore miner Fortescue Metals Group Ltd., which used the money to
refinance its debt last November, according to Thomson Reuters LPC.
The last and only previous time that U.S. investors backed an acquisition in Asia was in 2007, when
private-equity firms Affinity Equity Partners and TPG Capital bought Singapore precision-engineering
companyUnited Test & Assembly Center Ltd. for US$1.5 billion and borrowed US$625 million from
U.S. investors.

Now, U.S. investors are increasingly willing to look beyond Australia to the rest of the region, said Julien
Begasse de Dhaem, Asian-Pacific head of fixed-income capital markets at Morgan Stanley. "This
natural progression has continued with interest now developing in Asian companies with a global
presence," he said.
Private-equity firms generally like borrowing from U.S. investors because such loans include fewer
restrictions or covenants and minimal amortization, meaning they mainly pay interest until the principal
is due.

Page241of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The financing on KKR's buyout, for example, wasn't about cheap funding. In fact, banks in Asia would
have charged similar or even lower interest rates. It was more about restrictions and terms. The debt on
the Goodpack acquisition represents leverage of 6.1 times the packaging company's 2013 earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, excluding one-time items. The norm for leveraged
loans in Asia is four to five times. In addition, the loan is in two tranches—one to be paid back in seven
years and one in eight years, compared with a likely five years if the loan had been made in Asia.

To be sure, U.S. investors aren't jumping to finance every deal in Asia. HCP Holdings Inc., a
Shanghai-based packaging company owned by private-equity firm TPG, tried to borrow $380 million
from the term-loan B market in late July, just 10 days after KKR began seeking funding for Goodpack.
HCP had the misfortune of tapping the market at a time of heightened tensions between Ukraine and
Russia, which had damped U.S. investors' appetite for risk and foreign assets, a person familiar with the
situation said.

KKR, Goodpack and TPG declined to comment. HCP couldn't be reached for comment.

CO
IN

NS

RE

IPD
PUB
AN

godpk : Goodpack Limited | kkr : KKR & Co. L.P.
i77002 : Freight Transportation Arrangement | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150203 :
Private Equity | ialtinv : Alternative Investments | icargo : Freight/Cargo Transport | ifinal : Financial
Services | iinv : Investing/Securities | itsp : Transportation/Shipping
clbo : Leveraged Buyouts | c173 : Financing Agreements | c18 : Ownership Changes | cacqu :
Acquisitions | c17 : Funding/Capital | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cactio : Corporate Actions
| ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry
News Filter
singp : Singapore | usa : United States | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North America
| seasiaz : Southeast Asia | apacz : Asia Pacific | austr : Australia
Markets Main
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document WSJO000020140916ea9g006en

Page242of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.