Media mogul Stokes has taste for honeypot Capilano

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Media mogul Stokes has taste for honeypot Capilano

Tim Binsted
460 words
30 June 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
28
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Agribusiness

Media mogul Kerry Stokes has emerged as the largest shareholder in Capilano Honey, mopping up a
large part of the Icon Brands stake sold off last week.

In early June one of Capilano's largest beekeeper shareholders sold a big line of stock and last week
broker Cannacord Genuity handled a block trade on behalf of Icon Brands that saw Mr Stokes join the
register.
Icon Brands held a 20.7 per cent stake and Mr Stokes has emerged with a 12.5 per cent shareholding.
The billionaire executive chairman of Seven Group, Mr Stokes is well known for his ability to use
creep provisions to wield influence over listed companies without paying shareholders a premium to
gain control.
The large trades in Capilano's shares come just months after the company amended its rules so that
its beekeeper suppliers are no longer compelled to hold shares.

Capilano, which buys honey from about 500 Australian beekeepers, commands roughly 50 per cent of
the domestic honey market under its Capilano Honey brand. The most recent heatwave across
Australia gave the company an opportunity to increase its dominance.

Bees are vulnerable to hot weather and dry conditions have seen local honey production falter.
Capilano chief executive Ben McKee said the company had been able to source honey from other
parts of the world such as China at the expense of rivals like Beechworth.

"Some of our competitors don't have honey and we do. There has been a bit of a hole in the market
and we can fill the void ... with imported honey," he said. Sourcing honey from other markets also
enables Capilano to lower its costs.

"Australian honey costs somewhere between $4 to $4.20 per kilogram. It [Capilano] can import honey
to [offset] the shortage and some of that is at a lower price point," Cannacord head of industrial
research Aaron Muller said.

Mr McKee, a former beekeeper who did doctoral research on bees, said he had been repositioning
Capilano from a "feed the masses" approach to focus on driving premium brands.

Honey sales generally are growing about 5 per cent a year, and Mr McKee said a major driver of that
was the health-conscious consumer who favoured natural products like honey over rival spreads like
peanut butter.
Capilano's revenue in the six months to the end of last December was $43.2 million, up from $33.8
million a year earlier, while net profit before tax rose to $2.95 million from $1.02 million.

Page288of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Capilano has a market value of $51 million and its shares have soared more than 140 per cent over
the past year to about $6.

RE
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020140629ea6u00053

Page289of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.