Chinese tip another $15m into Cuesta Coal

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Chinese tip another $15m into Cuesta Coal

Sarah-Jane Tasker
390 words
20 May 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
28
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

MINING: The Chinese are continuing their support of Australian coal projects, despite tough market
conditions.
Cuesta Coal yesterday said its major shareholder, state-owned Beijing Guoli Energy Investment
Company, would inject $15 million into the company via two separate share placements to increase
its stake from 36 per cent to 54 per cent.

“The funding agreement ... with Beijing Guoli significantly strengthens Cuesta’s balance sheet and
allows Cuesta to continue to work towards achieving its development objectives at Moorlands, in
particular the operational focus on advancing the definitive feasibility study,” managing director
Matthew Crawford said.
“This is particularly pleasing given the challenging market conditions faced by emerging coal
companies and the limited availability of funding.” Crawford said that following the completion of both
tranches of the share placement, the Chinese company would have invested $47m in Cuesta.

“The continued support of Beijing Guoli will increase the likelihood of securing favourable project
finance funding for the construction phase of Moorlands,” he said.

The Moorlands project is an open-cut thermal coalmine 30km north west of Clermont in Queensland’s
Bowen Basin. The company is hoping to have it in production by 2016.
Australia’s thermal coal market has been struggling with a combination of low prices and high costs.
Analysts say the sector is ripe for merger and acquisition activity.
Nathan Tinkler re-entered Australia’s coal space last week, with the $150m purchase of Peabody
Energy’s Wilkie Creek thermal coalmine in Queensland.

Several projects are being mothballed and expansion plans scaled back because of market
conditions, while Brazil’s Vale announced over the weekend it would close its Integra coalmine in the
Hunter Valley region of NSW. It said the decision to place the mine on care and maintenance was
because of unsustainable financial losses at the operation.
The Construction Forestry Mining and Energy Union said yesterday 500 jobs were at risk, which
would have devastating consequences for Singleton.
“Workers are angry and upset about losing their jobs,” CFMEU northern mining and NSW energy
district president Peter Jordan said. “But people are also looking for clarity about whether Vale
intends to resume production at the mines.”“Vale must not be allowed to use a break in production to
replace a local, permanent workforce with a casualised, commuting workforce.”

CO
IN

ccoalz : Cuesta Coal Limited
imet : Mining/Quarrying | i111 : Coal Mining | i1 : Energy | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources

Page160of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS
RE

PUB
AN

ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | china : China | beijin : Beijing | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140519ea5k00009

Page161of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.