A $4.4bn result keeps it Rio

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
A $4.4bn result keeps it Rio

PAUL GILDER
548 words
8 August 2014
The Advertiser
ADVTSR
Advertiser
34
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

MINING titan Rio Tinto has delivered a robust result, more than doubling its first-half net profit on the
back of record iron ore shipments and a deep cost-cutting program.
The resources giant posted a profit of $US4.4 billion. It also lifted underlying earnings before interest,
tax, depreciation and amortisation by 21 per cent to $US5.1 billion, boosted by stronger returns from
its aluminium and copper divisions.

The profit spikes came despite a dip in group revenue, down 0.7 per cent to $US24.3 billion. Rio chief
Sam Walsh said the company was reaping the rewards of a major cost-cutting drive, having cut net
debt to $US16.1 billion – a reduction of $US6 billion compared with the same time last year. It also cut
capital expenditure by 48 per cent to $US3.6 billion.

“We’ve delivered on what we’ve promised . . . against a backdrop of considerable market uncertainty,”
Mr Walsh said. “ We’ve emerged a simpler, much more focused and leaner business.” Rio’s ramp up in
iron-ore volumes to an annualised 290 metric tonnes in May and its low-cost production model were
helping it combat the steep drop in the price of the key steelmaking ingredient, off more than 30 per
cent since the start of the year.
He said China, the biggest buyer of Australian iron ore, was seeking to reduce pollution levels and
pursuing the highest-quality grade on the market, putting Rio in the box seat.
“China’s going upmarket in the quality of their iron-ore blend as it reduces the amount of slag it
produces and improves pollution output from factories, hence the price discounting you’re seeing from
the junior iron-ore producers,” Mr Walsh said.
He said Rio, which shed 2200 jobs in the half, had no immediate merger and acquisition targets and
would pursue “only the highest calibre opportunities”. Mr Walsh also backed the rock-bottom $50
million sale last month of the group’s failed Mozambique coal assets bought in 2011 as part of its
ill-fated $4 billion takeover of Riversdale Mining.

“We’d been working hard to turn the business around, but the best option was to close the book and
move on,” he said, adding negotiations were ongoing over the phase two development of its $12.3
billion joint venture Oyu Tolgoi copper and gold mine in Mongolia.
He was hopeful of a resolution ahead of September’s funding deadline. While iron- ore returns were up
marginally, Rio lifted earnings in its copper division by 31 per cent for the half thanks to improved
grades at its Utah copper mine.

It also gained a welcome 26 per cent boost in its aluminium arm, which has been a perennial
underperformer. Despite analysts expecting a slightly stronger result, Rio’s focus on volumes more than
offset the impact of weaker commodity prices, especially in iron ore, its core product.

“It’s a world-class result,” IG Markets’ Evan Lucas said.

Page183of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The miner also issued an interim fully franked dividend of US96c a share, up from US83.5c in the
previous corresponding half.Rio shares had earlier closed up 50c to $66.32 in a likely anticipation of
strong numbers.

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

rtz : Rio Tinto PLC | rtzcra : Rio Tinto Group | craaus : Rio Tinto Ltd
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ialomin : Aluminum Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document ADVTSR0020140807ea88000b3

Page184of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.