More export success, we’ve got that licked

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
More export success, we’ve got that licked

CHRISTOPHER RUSSELL
672 words
11 October 2014
The Advertiser
ADVTSR
Advertiser
79
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

MANUFACTURERS with the best products directed at the right markets can defy the gloom and score
success, the winner of the 2014 South Australian exporter of the Year has proven.

Kelly Engineering, from Booleroo Centre in the state’s Mid North, received the accolade yesterday from
Business SA at a celebration luncheon at the National Wine Centre.

“We build farm machinery – low-volume, high-value prod-ucts,” said managing director Shane Kelly.

“We design, develop, refine, manufacture, market and service the products. “So, it’s advanced
manufacturing even though it’s a low-tech product.” Kelly Engineering was founded nearly 30 years ago
by Shane’s father Peter. The family brought their own farming experience to bear on creating better
products.
The company took the plunge into exports in 2006 with its first sale into the US and this year it sent its
1000th machine to that market.
Kelly Engineering also won the manufacturing award, one of eight categories recognised by Business
SA.
The award winners were praised by Business SA chief executive Nigel McBride for showing innovation,
passion and courage to compete on the global stage.

“These people are job makers, not job takers and we need more of them in this state,” he said. “They are
the future.” Mr McBride said it was not easy to run a business and it was especially hard to break into
becoming an exporter.

“It’s tough out there,” he said. “This is not a champagne moment but it is an opportunity to say that even
in hard times we are growing.” Investment and Trade Minister Martin Hamilton-Smith said there were big
challenges and opportunities for the South Australian economy.

“As a small state, export growth is, in my view, the single most important driver of economic prosperity,”
he said.

“To win, SA must become an even more outward-looking economy and begin to think like the major
trading powers of Europe, the US s and China.

“We must focus on increasing our knowledge, innovation and enterprise, bringing it together with
entrepreneurship and seed funding venture capital – what I call a cocktail for success.” Other winners at
the awards included a strong showing from the food industry with Kangaroo Island seafood company
Ferguson Australia, dairy firm B.-d. Farm Paris Creek and Blue Lake Milling acknowledged.

Ferguson Australia managing director Andrew Ferguson said their lobsters were the most expensive in
China – but also the best quality.

Page176of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.However, he warned supply was an issue because “the State Government has thrown us a grenade with
the no-take zones” in marine reforms.
Kelly Engineering’s two awards add to an already bulging trophy cabinet for the business which
employs about 50 people.

Earlier this year, Kelly won the Ernst and Young central region entrepreneur’s award for technology.
In 2010, it was the SA Telstrabusiness of the year and national winner of the Telstra regional business
award.

Mr Kelly also won a scholarship from the Industry Leaders Fund to advance his managerial skills.

The Kelly chain harrow has been a market leader because it cuts fuel consumption for farmers and
reduces the need for chemical control of weeds.
Mr Kelly said sustainability was a key factor for the business. It has rainwater collection at Booleroo
Centre and through solar panels generates more electricity than it uses.

The eight category winners will go forward to the national awards hosted by AusIndustry and the
Australian Chamber of Commerce and Industry.

THE WINNERS . . .
BUSINESS SA 2014 EXPORT AWARDS Ferguson Australia: Primary Industries and Regions SA
Agribusiness Award Patch Theatre Company: Channel 7 Creative Industries Award B.-d Farm Paris
Creek: Efic Environmental Solutions Award Soniclean: National Wine Centre Health and Biotechnology
Award Avinet: Austrade Information and Com-munications Technology (ICT) Award Kelly Engineering:
Department of State Development Manufacturing. StatewideSuper South Australian Exporter of the Year
Award Blue Lake Milling: Primary Industries and Regions SA Regional Exporter Award Protect-IT
Column Guards:Aus Industry Small Business Awards

NS
RE
PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | saustr : South Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document ADVTSR0020141010eaab000ad

Page177of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.