FL-LNG by LNG Limited Becomes Shaky Again; Chinese partner may withdraw

FL-LNG by LNG Limited Becomes Shaky Again; Chinese partner may withdraw

HD
WC 398 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

26 May 2014
Tex Energy Report
TEXERE
English
Copyright 2014. The TEX Report Ltd.

TD

Fisherman's Landing LNG Project (FL-LNG) by LNG Limited that plans to build a plant to liquefy coal
seam gas in Australia may become shaky again.
LNG Limited announced on May 21 that its biggest shareholder, China Huanqiu Contracting and
Engineering Corporation (HQCEC), sold 43.25 million shares out of its holding of 53.25 million shares,
leaving only one, non-executive, director in the board to continue to advise and assist the company.
HQCEC's intention behind its sale of the shares is uncertain, but the Chinese company may be thinking
to totally withdraw from FL-LNG and LNG Limited itself.

HQCEC, an international Chinese engineering company and a group company of CNPC (China
National Petroleum Company), bought 53.25 million shares of LNG Limited in May 2011 at
A$0.48/share, A$25.56 million in total, to become the largest shareholder of the company.

As to FL-LNG, HQCEC and LNG Limited mutually agreed to jointly promote development of the project
including EPC work for the project by HQCEC. In addition, PetroChina, another group company of
CNPC, started talks with LNG Limited on toll liquefaction contracts, while it bought Molopo Energy, an
Australian company owning coal seam gas assets, to secure gas intended to supply to FL-LNG.
With the sale of the shares by HQCEC as above, it is obvious that the support extended so far by CNPC
and its group companies will diminish. If CNPC withdraws entirely from the Australian company, FL-LNG
will probably need to fundamentally reconsider the project itself.
In the past, FL-LNG was put in a similar situation, when Arrow Energy, Australia, who had been a partner
from the start as a potential supplier of gas, was acquired by Shell and its partners in 2010. Upon loss of
the planned gas supply, FL-LNG restructured its marketing from outright sale of LNG to sales of its
liquefaction capacity on a toll basis under the auspices of CNPC.

Good thing for LNG Limited is that its LNG project in the U.S.A., Magnolia LNG, has been steadily making
progress for final investment decision during the second half of 2014. The company has been successful
in finalizing contracts to toll treat natural gas using 7 million tpy of its capacity out of 8 million tpy.

CO cnpngc : China National Petroleum Corp | lngl : Liquefied Natural Gas Limited
IN
NS

i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300004 : Liquefied/Compressed Gas
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC
Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

RE

PUB The Tex Report Ltd.
AN

Document TEXERE0020140523ea5q00007

Page18of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.