'Dumping' squeezes Arrium profits

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
'Dumping' squeezes Arrium profits

Tim Binsted
440 words
20 October 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
22
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Manufacturing

The Anti-Dumping Commission is investigating a claim by Arrium subsidiary OneSteel that a host of
steel exporters including South Korea, Thailand and Turkey are injuring the company by "dumping"
cheap product in Australia.

The investigation comes in the wake of Arrium's shock $754 million equity raising, undertaken to
reduce debt in the face of collapsing iron ore prices and sustained losses in the steel business.

On August 8 OneSteel lodged an application requesting that Bob Baldwin, parliamentary secretary to
Industry Minister Ian Macfarlane, publish a dumping duty notice in respect of steel reinforcing bar
(rebar) exported to Australia from Korea, Malaysia, Singapore, Spain, Taiwan, Thailand and Turkey.

OneSteel alleges the Australian steel industry has "suffered material injury" in the form of lost sales
volumes, reduced market share, lower prices and reduced profits due to the export of rebar at prices
below actual product value (dumping).

OneSteel is Australia's only producer of rebar, manufacturing rebar products at Whyalla, Laverton and
Newcastle. The Australian rebar market was between 750,000 tonnes and 1 million tonnes in 2013-14.
Arrium's OneSteel business sold 2.07 million tonnes of steel in 2013-14 and generated just $51
million of earnings (before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation) on $2.9 billion of revenue.

The anti-dumping claim covers steel products that account for about 30 per cent of OneSteel's total
sales.

In 2013-14 imports from the countries accused of dumping increased by 20 per cent on the previous
year, compared with 2 per cent growth the year before. OneSteel said that the size of the Australian
rebar market contracted 2 per cent in 2013-14 and that its own sales declined 5 per cent, while exports
of dumped rebar from the nominated countries increased by 33 per cent.
As a softening Chinese property market and anaemic global economic growth dampen steel demand,
a lot of product is looking for a home.

The Canada Border Services Agency launched an investigation into alleged dumping of concrete
reinforcing bar from China, Korea, and Turkey on June 13. It found dumping had occurred and
imposed provisional duties.

"The commission is satisfied that... there appears to be reasonable grounds for concluding that rebar
has been exported to Australia from the nominated countries at dumped prices and the dumping
margins are not negligible," it said.

Page156of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."The commission considers that injury to the Australian industry appears to have been caused by
allegedly dumped imports of rebar."

After the investigation Mr Baldwin will determine whether to reject OneSteel's claim or impose interim
dumping duties.

onestl : Arrium Limited
i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | i22 : Primary Metals | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | i222 : Steel
Products
c311 : Domestic Markets | gtrade : Tariffs/Trade Barriers | c312 : External Markets | c31 :
Marketing/Markets | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat :
Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gdip : International Relations | gpir :
Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry
News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020141019eaak0001x

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page157of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.