Keen eye on fate of Woolworths pubs

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Keen eye on fate of Woolworths pubs

Big picture Karen Maley
900 words
28 June 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
34
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Investors are keeping a close eye on the hotel and gaming industry as supermarket giant Woolworths
weighs up whether it will unload about $650 million worth of pubs and liquor stores through a sale to a
trade buyer or press ahead with a sharemarket listing.

The pubs are held within ALH Group, which is 75 per cent owned by the supermarket and the
remainder controlled by pub baron Bruce Mathieson. ALH is the country's largest and most profitable
pub operator.

If Woolworths opts for the trade sale route, analysts believe the country's largest owner of pub freehold
properties, ALE Property Group, is in the box seat. ALE is one of the listed real estate sector's most
solid performers, averaging a near 20 per cent compound return for the past decade. But although ALE
has the potential to lob an aggressive bid, and could potentially tap shareholders for extra funds to
finance the purchase, the trust has a distinctly conservative approach to acquisitions and has not
bought a pub in five years.

ALE managing director Andrew Wilkinson and chief financial officer Andrew Slade made a
presentation at the Credit Suisse Alternative Asset Conference earlier this month.

According to the Credit Suisse summary of the management presentation, ALE's assets – a
high-quality portfolio of 86 pubs – "have demonstrated consistent value growth through volatile
economic cycles with rent increases underpinned by embedded CPI [consumer price index]-linked
growth.

"The high-quality nature of ALE's assets and lease structures justifies the relatively tight portfolio
weighted average cap rate of 6.59 per cent."
What's more, "the bite-sized nature of ALE's pubs, which have an average value of $9.2 million,
makes them highly liquid and attractive to a wide range of buyers".Petrol stations potentially attractive

The Credit Suisse note added ALE management viewed petrol stations "as a potentially attractive
asset class" and also highlighted the opportunity to use its vacant land holdings on a number of the
properties in its portfolio.

But other analysts say the risk for ALE is that if Woolworths opts to float its pub portfolio rather than
pursue a trade sale, investors could start to question the trust's growth prospects.

Investors are paying particular attention to the fate of the Woolworths hotel arm, which owns more than
11,000 gaming machines, in the wake of Australian Gaming & Entertainment Limited's decision last
month to pull its plans to float. The gaming-focused company failed to persuade investors to part with
the $80 million needed to fund its purchase of five Sydney pubs and launch as a listed company.

Meanwhile, UBS Global Research has a buy recommendation on the country's two casino giants,
Crown Resorts and Echo Entertainment Group. In a report this month, the UBS analysts trimmed their
estimates of Crown's earnings for the next two years to reflect lower domestic earnings due to the

Page19of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.softer than expected local economy and a number of one-off expenses. In addition, they expect the
growth in earnings from Crown's Macau operations (it holds a 33.7 per cent interest in Melco Crown)
will moderate as VIP demand slows.

Despite this, they argue Crown "remains compelling value in our view", trading on a price-earnings
multiple of about 14 times estimated 2015 earnings. They add that "our forecasts do not incorporate
potential upside from the Crown Sydney development [in Barangaroo] . . . or any potential from the
coming Brisbane casino proposal."
They note that Crown's domestic casino licences are monopolistic and long-dated and that the stake in
Melco Crown provides the company with an exposure to the high-growth Macau gaming market
(which is now seven times the size of Las Vegas).
With respect to Echo Entertainment, the UBS analysts say the company has flagged it expects
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) to rise to between $430 million
and $435 million this financial year, above consensus estimates of $411 million.Significant
improvement in operating performance

They point out this represents a significant improvement in terms of operating performance in the
second half of the 2014 financial year, but say a key issue for the market will be whether Echo can
maintain this operating performance into the 2015 financial year.

"We believe the outlook remains strong – with the benefits from the Queensland concessions expected
to continue to benefit into the first half of 2015, improving momentum at Star, with the benefits of
recent changes to player loyalty continuing to play out and expectations for ongoing cost control."

What's more they point out that although Echo's earnings are finally beginning to show some of the
benefits from operational improvements and capital investment, "we note the stock continues to trade
at a significant discount to peers".

UBS says that although the Queensland licence risk remains an issue, the market "is already pricing in
over $500 million of value destruction in the current price for this issue".
This week, Echo threw down the challenge to Crown by teaming up two Hong Kong groups in the
battle for Brisbane's second casino licence.

Echo is hoping to stop Crown trumping its existing 19-year-old Treasury Casino in Brisbane. Echo also
operates The Star in Sydney and Jupiters on the Gold Coast and Jupiters Townsville.

CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

aleprg : ALE Property Group | wolwth : Woolworths Limited
i662 : Bars/Public Houses | ifood : Food Products | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i66 :
Hotels/Restaurants | icnp : Consumer Goods | ilea : Leisure/Arts/Hospitality | i64 : Retail/Wholesale |
i641 : Food Retailing | i6411 : Supermarkets/Grocery Stores | i654 : Specialty Stores | i81502 :
Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities | iretail : Retail
c182 : Asset Transactions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
| nswals : New South Wales | queensl : Queensland
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140627ea6s00023

Page20of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.