Shell out for sea treasure

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

PROPERTY
Shell out for sea treasure

SIMONE SMITH
354 words
15 January 2014
The Weekly Times
HERWEK
1 - FIRST
31
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

JADE TIGER ABALONE
Property: aquaculture

Size: 20ha

Price: up to $20 million

Agent: Kidder Williams Ltd

Contact: David Williams or Daniel Levy (03) 9246 4200

PRODUCTION can be tripled on Australia's largest abalone farm.
The 20ha property at Indented Head on the Bellarine Peninsula produces its trademark Jade Tiger
Abalone and is owned by Great Southern Waters Pty Ltd.

It produces more than 180 tonnes a year of live, frozen, canned and cooked vacuum-packed
product, mostly for the export market.

The facility has 400 ``grow-out'' tanks, but there was potential to increase production to about 450
tonnes a year on the existing site with further capital expenditure.

It also highlighted opportunities to utilise offshore sea cages.

Other business growth suggestions included selling its own breed of abalone, Jade Tiger Abalone
larvae, to other abalone farmers both domestically and internationally.

The breed was developed by combining the best characteristics from across 278 different family
lines and was established from wild populations from Victoria, Tasmania and South Australia.

Operating a close-cycle hatchery system, the business uses its domesticated broodstock, going
back three generations, to fill requirements.

Expansion opportunities also exist by increasing automation of cleaning, feeding and harvesting, as
well as in-house canning and freezing lines.

The selling agent said it was the ``only fully integrated abalone operation in Australia comprising
world-class genetic program, biosecure hatchery, nursery, grow-out, processing and export facility''.

It also said it's the only Australian abalone producer able to supply fresh abalone to the market all
year round and with just-in-time dispatch.

Page253of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.``Jade Tiger Abalone is a unique proprietary domesticated breed, the product of the company's
world-leading abalone breeding program,'' it said.
Product is sold to leading hotels and restaurants in Australia, the US, Dubai, Hong Kong, Japan,
Singapore, China, Malaysia, Taiwan and Thailand.
In 2009 the company won the Governor of Victoria's emerging exporter of the year award.

About an hour from the Melbourne Airport, it is claimed the product could travel ``from farm to
plate'' globally within 24 hours.

RE
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document HERWEK0020140114ea1f0001l

Page254of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.