Tamworth resident and councillor Mark Rodda writes

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

OTHER TOWNS
Tamworth resident and councillor Mark Rodda writes

724 words
17 October 2014
Northern Daily Leader
FNODAL
8
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

Tamworth resident and councillor Mark Rodda writes to say that the rise of Dubbo MP Troy Grant is the
perfect opportunity for the NSW National Party to renew itself and to rethink its support of electricity
privatisation.

The exciting announcement of member for Dubbo Troy Grant being elected unopposed as the new
leader of the NSW Nationals is a great feat considering he is a first-term MP and, of course, previously
resided in our region in his younger years.

I am hopeful this represents a great change for the people of rural NSW.

Given Troy Grant's previous commitment to rural NSW, I am hopeful he will revisit The Nationals
support of Mike Baird's electricity privatisation agenda prior to the March 2015 State election.

An agenda that is deeply unpopular with the voters of many rural NSW electorates including Dubbo,
Tamworth, Barwon, Northern Tablelands, Upper Hunter, Bathurst and elsewhere.

This agenda will guarantee electricity prices will rise, hurting Troy's rural constituency.
An agenda that will slash by half, government revenues (approximately $1.5 billion) from electricity
distributors, putting at risk government programs in rural NSW and hurting Troy's rural constituency.

An agenda that will ensure State government taxes rise hurting Troy's rural constituency.

An agenda that will ensure government services will be cut ensuring NSW State public servants like
nurses, teachers and police will also be cut, made redundant or not replaced, hurting Troy's rural
constituency and harming the economy of rural NSW which relies in part on income from sustainable
government jobs.

This agenda will make rural NSW a less attractive place to reside and of course hurt Troy's rural
constituency.

It's the reason rural NSW has lost another rural electorate, Murray-Darling.

The Mike Baird electricity privatisation agenda will ensure every Transgrid job in rural NSW is at risk,
including 65 workers in Tamworth and will also set in motion the future demise of Essential Energy
jobs.

We know the privatisation plans may only benefit Mike Baird's big business friends in the city, or indeed
a state-owned enterprise of the People's Republic of China, where half of all the state's electricity
distribution revenue will go.

We know there are better ways to raise funds for much needed infrastructure projects such as issuing
Waratah Bonds or drawing loans, just as previous NSW state governments did.

Joe Hockey's Asset Recycling Fund stalled in the Senate is certainly not the answer. The policy is a
pup, best not to take it to the state election.

Page313of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Leadership renewal is an opportunity to remould a party which has been tarnished by its unfettered
support for its major city centric political partner and for being associated with a dozen or so Liberal
MP's accused of breaching state political donation laws and which undermined the major point of
difference between the government and the ALP opposition with its myriad of corrupt ALP politicians
yet to face charges.
The party has also lost some gloss for its support of big mining companies over our farmers and not
delivering the bounty to rural NSW areas with extractive industries as the Western Australian Nationals
Royalties for Regions policy does.

The people of rural NSW want their representatives to understand the pain that privatisation policies
inflict on them and how this puts at risk the future of rural NSW.

Many people are right to feel disillusioned. After 3.5 years, this needs to be urgently addressed, as
does the reason why the government has suffered a massive 11 per centswing against it since the last
State election.

Such a swing will put at risk a number of Nationals held seats. After the next state election it will be
clear that the state government will have to rely on every vote it can get from Nationals MP's in both
houses.

I have always been conservative, hence my opposition to Mike Baird's privatisation agenda.

It will harm rural NSW and so I look forward to new Nationals leader Troy Grant standing up for rural
NSW and fixing some of these issues.

I am reminded that you have to stand for something or you'll fall for anything. This is my mantra.

NS

RE
PUB
AN

greg : Regional Politics | gpol : Domestic Politics | gcat : Political/General News | gpir :
Politics/International Relations
nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FNODAL0020141016eaah0000t

Page314of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.