Surge likely for China investment

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Surge likely for China investment

Rowan Callick
276 words
19 November 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
28
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Chinese investment in Australian real estate — which is likely to intensify following the free-trade
agreement — is taking a new course, according to Ernst and Young’s transaction services leader
Ross Hamilton.
After investing $24 billion over the past seven years, he said, Chinese commercial buyers would now
increase their investment to $8bn a year.

He told the Australia China Economic and Trade Forum in Canberra this week that at first Chinese
tended to invest directly into developments, taking all the risk — “with mixed results”.

Then they began working more in 50-50 joint ventures.
The third stage, now becoming more prevalent, was applying passive equity, although branded with
the Chinese partner’s name.

Investors were now “getting the due diligence right”.
Chinese investment was here to stay and would accelerate “dramatically” over the next five years, Mr
Hamilton said. It brought with it a new distribution network too.

Luo Xiaohua, the managing director of Greenland Australia, said that “like other Asian investors, we
find potential and business opportunities here”.
He said his company had already invested $2bn.

“We want to expand our developments. We are attracted by the competitiveness of your cities. You
offer political stability and low risk, as well as high returns.” From an investor’s perspective, “rental
returns are quite high, with low vacancy rates. There are also many Chinese and Asian people
seeking to live here”.Liwei Sun, the deputy general manager of Chinese developer Wanda, said his
company had chosen to develop its first five-star hotel in Australia, the $1bn Jewel Hotel on
Queensland’s Gold Coast, through a joint venture.

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141118eabj0000c

Page26of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.