Australians face dream home eviction; Chinese bank holds titles for properties

Australians face dream home eviction; Chinese bank holds titles for properties

By Lindsay Murdoch in Phuket

HD
BY
WC 894 words
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

27 November 2014
Canberra Times
CANBTZ
A010
English
(c) 2014 The Canberra Times

Australians face dream home eviction
NIGHTMARE: Melbourne retiree Daryl Davies outside the Chom Tawan residential development on
Phuket's west coast. He and other buyers face eviction because of the developer's financial woes.

TD

Chinese bank holds titles for properties

By Lindsay Murdoch in Phuket

Daryl Davies knew when he saw the luxurious homes set amid eight tropical acres with stunning sea
views that this is where he wanted to spend his retirement years. "They are absolutely delightful," says
70-year-old Mr Davies from Melbourne, referring to a $30 million development on the pristine west coast
of the Thai resort island of Phuket. Mr Davies, a retired commercial pilot, paid the equivalent of about
$500,000 in Thai baht for his dream three-bedroom home in Chom Tawan, one of the most prestigious
residential developments on Phuket. But a Thai court has authorised an auction of the homes of Mr
Davies and more than 40 other buyers to the highest bidder if millions of dollars owed to the Industrial
Commercial Bank of China (ICBC) by the project developer are not repaid by a December 17 deadline.
The plight of the buyers, many of whom have been living in the homes since they were completed seven
years ago, illustrates the risks foreigners face buying real estate in Thailand, one of the most popular
destinations for retiring Australians. Mr Davies and other buyers, including five Australian families,
believed they were covering all bases before paying for what were promised to be effectively 90-year
leasehold titles for the homes, including hiring lawyers to do due diligence on the property. "We never for
one moment thought there would be a problem," says Mr Davies, who is married to a Thai. Two years ago
buyers awoke to find notices pinned to their doors declaring that a Thai manufacturer had not been paid
for supplying appliances to the development. "We were shocked. We started investigating what had
happened but it only got worse, much worse," Mr Davies told Fairfax Media. The developer, Napawan
Asia Limited, had promised that buyers who paid upfront for their houses would receive titles reflecting
their freehold/leasehold ownership once the development was registered with Phuket's land department.
"The company kept telling us everything is going nicely. "It's happening, don't worry. "But it went on and
on," Mr Davies said. Catherine Gathani, a buyer from Hong Kong, said she was aware when finalising
the contract for her home there was a mortgage on the land but Napawan Asia told her "this would be
paid down as the buyers' stage payments were made, so that by the time the project was complete the
mortgage would be fully paid". She said buyers only discovered several years later the company had not
repaid the original mortgage and that it had given the titles of the

buildings to the bank as part of a debt restructuring or remortgaging arrangement. Andrew Street, the
British developer behind Napawan Asia, admits the company was "over- extended commercially at the
commencement of the global financial crisis", which he says had a significant impact on Phuket. Mr
Street, who has returned to live in Britain, told Fairfax Media: "I have remained and still intend to deliver all
that the buyers require". "Within weeks of this date there will be firm plans to bring this debt restructuring
to a conclusion," he said. "All parties are involved in

producing an agreement to achieve the buyers' requirements relating to ownership ... we are at the final
negotiations of all matters with the bank, buyers and suppliers to conclude this matter." But Mr Davies

Page114of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.said attempts over recent months for a settlement between ICBC, the buyers and Napawan Asia have
collapsed in acrimony.Under one proposal discussed by ICBC in October, the buyers would be forced to
pay almost $200,000 more than their original purchase price in exchange for the bank releasing the
mortgage. The development builder is also

owed several million dollars, complicating any settlement. Mr Davies described the proposal as a "bridge
too far" for the buyers. "Many of the investors are retirees who face losing most or all of their life's savings.
It is an appalling situation to be in," he said. "We fear that one day soon we will all gets knocks our doors
and be told to leave our homes." Mr Street, who bought a $1 million house in the English Midlands in
August 2013 after leaving Phuket, said "certain people" have tried to personalise the issue and derail any
settlement amid a myriad of legal claims and counter-claims.

"It is not in the interest of all parties concerned for me to return to Thailand whilst in the final steps of the
debt workout," he said. As the auction deadline nears, buyers desperate to keep their houses have asked
Thailand's military rulers to intervene in the case and have taken urgent legal action to try to head off the
sale of their houses. Mr Davies said the buyers he is speaking for have not given up hope of keeping their
homes "but our position looks dire". He said the buyers decided to speak publicly about their plight to
warn others who may be considering investing in Thai real estate.

RF
RE

62529602
thail : Thailand | austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | seasiaz : Southeast Asia

PUB Federal Capital Press of Australia Pty Ltd
AN

Document CANBTZ0020141126eabr0001b

Page115of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.