Foreigners illegally buy trophy homes

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Foreigners illegally buy trophy homes

Larry Schlesinger
645 words
1 September 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
7
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Real estate agents and property lawyers are willingly helping foreign investors to illegally buy
prestige homes in Melbourne and Sydney, says buyers' agent David Morrell.
Mr Morrell said foreign buyers without the Australian residency requirement to own existing property
and who did not speak English were buying up big land banks in blue-chip suburbs such as Toorak
and Hawthorn while the Foreign Investment Review Board took no action.

Mr Morrell likened the powers of the FIRB to "a slap in the face with a wet lettuce". He said estate
agents, whom the FIRB relied upon to report foreign buyers flouting the rules, were looking the other
way in return for higher commissions.

"The lawyers are also getting something out of it, so they're not going to dob in their clients," he said.

In his submission to the FIRB, Mr Morrell said the problem was most severe at the top end of the
market (homes priced above $10 million) and those priced between $1.5 million and $3.5 million in
the inner cities.
He said Chinese nationals were buying homes at 20 per cent to 30 per cent premiums to the local
marketplace, causing a domino effect where other vendors believe their properties are worth more,
meaning local buyers cannot compete.

"At a recent Toorak auction, where the reserve was exceeded by 30 per cent, there were three
Chinese nationals competing, neither spoke English or understood the process and literally just kept
their hands in the air."
But he said a proposal to impose extra stamp duty charges on foreign buyers of real estate, which
was reported in AFR Weekend, being considered by a parliamentary committee examining housing
affordability would have no impact on the activity. "Foreign buyers will just wear it as a cost. It won't
sway them."Harsher penalties

Rather, he said, FIRB rules needed to be enforced and there needed to be much harsher penalties
for those that break the law. He also called for agents and lawyers to be disqualified and banned if
they facilitated illegal deals.
Both the Property Council and the Housing Industry Association said they strongly opposed extra
stamp duty charges being imposed on foreign buyers because ultimately Australian home buyers
and the construction sector would suffer with few projects proceeding.
Nick Proud, the PCA's director of its Residential Development Council, said foreign investment
played a critical role in leveraging additional housing into the domestic residential market.
"Every new home that a foreign investor purchased enabled up to four other homes to be built for
Australians," he said.

Page185of186©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."We have run the FIRB numbers and have worked out that foreign buyers have created between
15,000 and 20,000 homes for Australian buyers this year alone."

HIA chief executive Graham Wolfe said foreign investors were assisting in the creation of new house
and land estates. "They should not be treated any different to local buyers," Mr Wolfe said.

"We should be enabling supply, not imposing a new tax when up to 44 per cent of the cost of a new
house and land package is due to taxation," he said.

CBRE's Victorian director of city sales Mark Wizel, who sells many development sites to Asian
buyers, warned against "knee-jerk reaction" from state or federal governments.

"There are a vast number of families out there that have Asian developers to thank for holding our
development market together in the years following the GFC," Mr Wizel said.

"Builders, bankers, building suppliers, architects, engineers not to mention the government
themselves, via taxes and levies, have all been fuelled by increased appetite from off shore
developers in our capital cities.

Key points Agents and lawyers helping overseas buyers flout the rules to bank commissions and
fees. Chinese buyers adding premiums of up to 30pc in blue-chip suburbs.

RE

PUB
AN

austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New
South Wales
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140831ea9100011

Search Summary

Text

Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found
Timestamp

((chin* or hong kong)) and (
( (residential or site or commercial) and (casino resort or island or hotel or apartment
or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company or board or entitys) and
(transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) )
or
( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron or lead
or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or stake or
equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or firm or
company))
or
( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or equity
or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group or firm or
board) and (million* or billion* or B or M))
)
not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall Street
or Forex or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex)
and re=austr
01/09/2014 to 31/12/2014
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
2,847
28 August 2018 23:42

Page186of186©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.