Netflix goes doco Netflix is making a push into documentaries, announcing deals...

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Netflix goes doco Netflix is making a push into documentaries, announcing deals...

621 words
10 May 2014
Hawke's Bay Today
APNHBT
English
Copyright 2014 APN New Zealand Ltd - Regionals. All Rights Reserved

Netflix goes doco Netflix is making a push into documentaries, announcing deals plans to premiere four
new films in the next few months. Netflix has always made non-fiction films available to subscribers, but
until recently they have been projects initially made for theatrical release or on television networks. TV
networks and theatrical releases can offer a bigger burst of attention, but the films are generally only
available for a short period.

Z expected to slide

Z Energy's success in raising margins on petrol and diesel sales is under pressure and are ``likely to
trend toward the industry's lower net margin'', says Deutsche Bank analyst Grant Swanepoel. While Z
Energy's earnings were ahead of last year's prospectus forecast of $207 million, the apparent
outperformance was ``just a modest beat, or near top end of guidance'', once operational costs were
adjusted for abnormal impacts. Deutsche maintained its ``hold'' recommendation on Z, targeting a share
price of between $4.08 and $4.11.
Chinese inflation eases China's inflation eased in April, giving the government more leeway to stimulate
the slowing economy. The rise in politically sensitive food prices eased to 2.3 per cent from the previous
month's 4.1 per cent. In a sign of concern over job losses, Beijing launched a mini-stimulus in March
based on higher spending on building railways and other public works but leaders have so far ruled out
bigger efforts.
Trustpower looks at wind Trustpower is looking to its Australian wind farm investments to restore
earnings momentum after a sluggish result from its New Zealand electricity assets pulled full year net
earnings down by 6.7 per cent. Most to blame for the decreased earnings were lower electricity sales by
volume, lower wholesale electricity power prices and the impact of the strong New Zealand dollar on
Australian earnings when translated back to Kiwi dollars.
Apple working on buyout Apple is orchestrating a $3.2 billion ($3.7 billion) acquisition of Beats
Electronics. If the deal is completed, it would be the largest purchase in Apple's history. It hasn't released
a breakthrough product since Steve Jobs died in October 2011. The negotiations are taking place as the
music market tilts toward streaming and away from the downloads that once drove the success of Apple's
digital music store, iTunes.

News Corp slides

Rupert Murdoch's News Corp is confident advertisers will return to its Australian newspapers, despite a
21 per cent slide in revenue. Revenue from the local newspaper business, which includes The Australian,
Herald Sun and The Daily Telegraph, fell by US$103 million ($119.2 million) in the three months to
March 31, compared to the same period a year ago. News Corp's profit in the three months to March
dropped by 85 per cent, to US$48 million ($55.6 million), though the result was skewed by a one-off
gain a year ago from the sale of SKY Network Television in New Zealand.

Aussie dollar uncertain

The path of the Australian dollar is a source of uncertainty for the Reserve Australia Bank. It expects a
lower exchange rate, which would boost economic growth by improving competitiveness, but give the
economy an inflationary impulse through higher import prices. Just how quickly the mining investment
boom winds down, and how well the rest of the economy responds to low interest rates, are key

Page152of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.uncertainties, the RBA said in its quarterly Statement on Monetary Policy yesterday. With so many
uncertainties, the RBA stopped short of making any prediction, let alone a confident one, specifying the
expected timing and size of the Australian dollar's decline.

CO
IN

NS

netfli : NETFLIX Inc
i97411 : Broadcasting | i9741102 : Television Broadcasting | i974110205 : Interactive Television | imed :
Media/Entertainment
melec : Electricity Markets | m14 : Commodity Markets | m143 : Energy Markets | mcat :
Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion
Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB APN New Zealand Ltd - Regionals
AN

Document APNHBT0020140509ea5a0002x

Page153of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.