CASH NOW FLOWING

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
CASH NOW FLOWING

JOHN MCCARTHY
432 words
11 December 2014
Courier Mail
COUMAI
CourierMail3
56
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

GLOBAL gas giant BG Group has pocketed the first real benefits from the coal seam gas boom in
Queensland with a $US2 billion profit from the sale of the QCLNG pipeline from the Surat Basin to
Gladstone’s Curtis Island.
The 543km pipeline services the QCLNG project was bought by APA Group, which surprised many in
the market who thought sovereign wealth funds and Chinese investors would be keen bidders.

The $US5 billion price was also well above initial estimates of $US3 billion to $US4 billion and is
likely to stir the rival APLNG and GLNG projects to consider similar deals, according to analysts.

The deal is a winner for APA. Not only does it get the benefit from take-or-pay contracts but it expects
pre-tax earnings from the pipeline to be about $US390 million a year. It will also benefit from expected
synergies with its other Queensland assets such as the Moomba-to-Brisbane pipeline. It has also
signalled a $1.839 billion, one-for-three renounceable rights offer to fund part of the deal. BG said the
pipeline had a current book value of $US1.6 billion but that would be partly offset by a post-tax
impairment of BG Group’s remaining QCLNG assets, expected to be around $US2 billion.
The sale is conditional on the start of commercial LNG deliveries from the QCLNG export facility at
Gladstone and on partner consent. BG and its partners have firm capacity rights in the pipeline for 20
years, with options to extend, and first shipments are expected later this month.
BG executive chairman Andrew Gould said the company was happy with the deal. “The timing reflects
QCLNG’s advanced stage of development. We are now on the verge of delivering the world’s first
large-scale project using natural gas from coal seams as a feedstock for LNG,” Mr Gould said.

Morningstar’s Adrian Atkins said APA’s lower costs made the deal attractive to them as did the
company’s other Queensland assets.
The Santos GLNG venture said it had no intention of selling its pipeline and Origin Energy-backed
APLNG said it was examining the QCLNG deal but had made no decision to proceed with such a sale.

THAT STACKS UP $US5b Price APA will pay BG for the QCLNG pipeline $US2b Expected profit BG
makes on the deal $US390m Pre-tax earnings APA expecting from pipeline in first year 543km Length
of pipeline connecting Surat Basin to Curtis Island46,200 Number of 12 metre long pipes used in the
project

CO
IN

NS

austpi : APA Group | brgas : BG Group PLC
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300014 : Natural Gas Extraction | i502 : Heavy Construction
| i5020043 : Pipeline Laying | iconst : Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction | iextra : Natural
Gas/Oil Extraction
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News

Page150of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE
PUB
AN

queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
News Ltd.
Document COUMAI0020141210eacb0005n

Page151of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.