Island tavern in $6m deal

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Island tavern in $6m deal

PHIL BARTSCH
717 words
9 May 2014
Gold Coast Bulletin
GCBULL
GoldCoast
58
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

A BRISBANE-based joint-venture has reeled in its third Gold Coast asset, splashing out $6 million to
buy the Marina Quays Tavern at Hope Island.
The tavern has been acquired by Anthony Moreton Group and Redlands-based Pryde Group,
bringing the partnership’s total investment in the city in recent times to more than $15 million.

The recently settled deal completes for the joint-venture a trifecta of acquisitions of assets associated
with former high-profile developer John Fish.
In transactions finalised late last year, it secured a major stake — 69 of the 99 suites — in the Marina
Quays International Hotel at Hope Island for $3.2 million and acquired the Beach Hotel at
Broadbeach for $6 million.
All three properties have been purchased by entities linked to Tony Hazell, founder and chief
executive of Anthony Moreton Group, and businessman Warren Pryde.
Marina Quays Tavern sits on a prominent 9982sq m parcel fronting Hope Island’s main road,
Broadwater Ave.
It was part of a foray into the liquor industry by Mr Fish, involving the acquisition of tavern and
bottleshop holdings as well as a Granite Belt vineyard and the production of branded wines.
Mr Fish assembled a major Hope Island holding prior to the global financial crisis and laid plans to
develop a masterplanned community, Marina Quays.
The 1344sq m tavern, which opened in 2004, comprises a lounge bar/bistro, sports bar, TAB facilities,
gaming room with 40 poker machines as well as an outdoor dining area and children’s playground.
Thomas Dooner, general manager of operations for the Anthony Moreton Group and Pryde Group
joint-venture, said acquisition of the tavern was “a fantastic opportunity”.
“Having invested in the nearby Marina Quays International Hotel, it made a lot of sense to us,” he
said.
As well as the 69 suites in the nearby resort, the joint-venture owns all its commercial components —
including the restaurants, bars and management rights business.
The three-storey strata-title hotel opened in late 1998 and is four-star rated. It fronts John Lund Drive
and the 281-berth Hope Harbour Marina, which was snapped up last year for $12 million by a
company associated with Chris Spencer, a member of one of New Zealand’s richest families.

The venue initially operated under the Holiday Inn banner, and went on to become the Chancellor
Resort before being renamed Marina Quays International Hotel.

Page269of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“We think Hope Island is a growth story,” Mr Dooner said.

“It was severely hit by the global financial crisis and prices plummeted. “Now, as the area recovers, we
are seeing more house and land sales and a whole lot of development is mooted.
“The hotel asset is well positioned to reap the rewards of all that.” Marketing agents Darrell Irwin and
Brad Johnston, from Colliers International, negotiated the sale. Over the past 12 months developers
and offshore investors have swooped on Hope Island, snapping up about 100ha of heavily discounted
development land.

Mr Dooner said a capital improvement program was planned for the Marina Quays Tavern, including
an overall refurbishment of the property, gaming room upgrade and potential expansion.

“We are thrilled to be part of a vibrant and growing community and committed to improving the asset,”
he said.

“It sits on a tremendous block of land that is probably under-utilised.” Mr Dooner said the joint-venture
had recently completed a $300,000-plus revamp of the Beach Hotel, which fronts the Gold Coast
Highway at Broadbeach where more than $1.1 billion in development is under way or awaiting council
approval.
It fended off strong offers from Chinese investors and developers to secure the three-title 2982sq m
holding, which was purchased with an approval in place for 35-level tower featuring 198 one- and
two-bedroom units.
“Since the acquisition we have undertaken a complete refurbishment of the existing hotel asset —
putting on a new back deck as well as upgrading the gaming room and kitchen and other amenities,”
Mr Dooner said.
The trio of acquisitions represent a re-entry into the Gold Coast market by Anthony Moreton Group.

It has previously been involved in a number of projects in the city.They include the Chevron
Renaissance towers, which sparked a revitalisation of Surfers Paradise.

NS
RE
PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document GCBULL0020140508ea5900022

Page270of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.