Southern Inlands Brekkie Blog | Friday, October 17

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

news
Southern Inlands Brekkie Blog | Friday, October 17

2,642 words
16 October 2014
Goulburn Post
FGOULP
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

Good morning, and welcome to the Southern Inlands Brekkie Blog. Each morning we'll keep you up
to date with what's happening around the region, including the latest local news as it breaks and the
best of what's happening around Australia and around the world.

8.45am YASS: Parts of Sutton Road at Gundaroo will undergo a large-scale revamp, with around
$770,000 of state funding set aside to fix the dishevelled thoroughfare.

8.30am YOUNG: The Lovell Street B-double route is to be upgraded thanks to a $2.4 million funding
subsidy from the state government. In a joint announcement on Tuesday, Member for Burrinjuck,
Katrina Hodgkinson and Minister for Local Government, Paul Toole announced that a number of
B-double routes in the Young Shire will be upgraded thanks to the subsidy under Round Three of the
Local Infrastructure Renewal Scheme (LIRS).

8.15am GOULBURN: There were numerous sightings of a giant platypus at the Goulburn Wetlands
last Wednesday morning.

8.00am QUEANBEYAN: John Osmialowski is a glass half full kind of man. When his Jerrabomberra
home burnt down on August 19, he dealt with it by waiting on the street with a beer in hand while
firefighters went about their work.

7.45am YASS: The transformation from delapidated BP roadhouse to Yass Valley's Community
Centre is finally complete, with the facility on Yass Valley Way now officially open.
7.30am YOUNG: Young is one of two shires a proposed multi-million dollar state-of-the-art Rural
Fire Service zone headquarters may call home in the near future.

7.15am COOTAMUNDRA: ALL is set for a terrific three-day Cootamundra Show getting underway
today with the junior judging. Record entries are expected in today's student sections proving the
future of both country shows and agriculture is in good hands. Tomorrow is still the main day with a
host of activities planned from yard dog trials to a stockman's challenge to the quick shear and all of
the usual sheep, cattle and poultry judging.

7.00am GOULBURN: Corrective Services has welcomed police action in charging 11 inmates
following a serious disturbance at Goulburn Correctional Centre last month and will award responding
officers with a Commissioner's commendation.

Need a national news snapshot first thing? Well, we have you covered.

For all those TV buffs out there, the furore stirred up by Network Ten's ill-advised and sexist
questions on Wednesday night's Family Feud is just the latest chapter in the rich history of infamous,
embarrassing and just plain dumb moments produced by game shows over the past 60 or so years.

There seems something uniquely calculated about the genre to produce these talked-about incidents
in super-abundance.

Click here for our pick of some of the classics of the genre from more than 60 years.

Page36of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.6.55am: WARRNAMBOOL: A consortium hoping to buy dozens of south-west dairy farms aims to
operate "on a scale not considered in Australia before," a spokesman says.
Linear Capital managing director Troy Harper said the consortium, which has links to Chinese
investors, aimed to be a major new player in the regional dairy industry and be "vertically integated"
with its own dairy processing plants and training facility.

Mr Harper said Warrnambool, Colac and Mount Gambier were among locations being considered for
processing plants. Read more.

6.50am: DUBBO: New NSW Deputy Premier Troy Grant has vowed to continue fighting for the
Dubbo electorate despite a significant increase in his workload now that he has been elected as
leader of the NSW National party.

Mr Grant could also retain his current portfolios of Hospitality, Gaming and Racing, and the Arts or
take on a new role but said he would continue to give his all for those who gave him his start in
politics.
"I'm more than confident that I have demonstrated I can represent the people of Dubbo while
handling other duties," Mr Grant said. Read more.
6.45am: ILLAWARRA: The NSW government is considering a new residential development on the
shores of Lake Illawarra.

When the government scrapped the Lake Illawarra Authority last year, it outlined plans to take control
of 32 hectares of waterfront land at Warrawong, along King Street and Northcliffe Drive.
The prime development site, known as Kully Bay, was transferred in May and was the only land
retained by the government.

A long list of other, more costly, former LIA lands was to be transferred to Wollongong City Council,
even though councillors have said they will not accept these assets unless the government
guarantees future lake funding. More here.

6.40am: TASMANIA: Beekeepers have tapped into a new market of live bee exports to countries
where pests have destroyed hives.

Earlier this year Tasmanian beekeepers, including Australian Honey Products at Sheffield, sent 14
palettes of bees - 9.8 tonnes of live insects - to Canada.

Tasmania's season finished in February before Canada's season started, and many of the bees
exported from Tasmania would have died anyway.

Each palette shipped this year had 500 1.4-kilogram packets, each with drones, workers and a
queen. Read more.

6.35am: GRIFFITH: A family has been left shaken and distraught after their house was destroyed by
fire.

Fire crews were called to the two-bedroom home on Cutler Avenue at around 3am Tuesday, but
upon arrival the house was fully alight and could not be saved.

The owners said three generations of their family had lived at the house. More here.

6.30am: PORT MACQUARIE: The body of Sydney man William Lam has been recovered in Wallis
Lake.
Mr Lam's body was located near Regatta Island two kilometres from where he disappeared.

The 32-year-old from Berala got into difficulty when he entered the water at Wallis Lakes to retrieve
his child's shoes just before 2pm Wednesday.

Emergency services were alerted when he failed to surface. Read more.

6.25am: NEWCASTLE: Her Australian speaking tour included how to train a service submissive and
how nice guys learn to spank strong women.

Page37of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.But when former dominatrix Kali Williams spoke in Newcastle, there was neither whips nor leather.
Drawing on her experience working with bondage, discipline, dominance, submission and sadism,
she discussed professional communication in the male-dominated tech industry.

Communication, negotiations, gender and power dynamics happen everywhere, not not just in the
dungeons I have worked in, Ms Williams said, in a keynote address at Newcastle's DiG " Design
Innovation, Green Tech " festival. Read more.

6.20am: BLUE MOUNTAINS: It is one year since a devastating bushfire that claimed almost 200
properties in the lower Blue Mountains region in New South Wales.

It is unknown what sparked the blaze, which tore through Springwood and Winmalee on October 17,
destroying 193 homes and partially damaging about 200 more. Photos and video here.

6.15am: BUNBURY: Dylan Thomas may have been through an ordeal which has horrified a lot of
people " but he's keen to commemorate the experience so it can never be forgotten.

Dylan is hoping his mates will chip in for a spider tattoo which will cover his chest similar to
Spiderman's famous suit.

He may be joking about whether he'll develop "superpowers" but on the weekend he was
experiencing a "searing sensation" as a spider that had made its way into his abdomen through an
old appendix scar, crawled underneath his skin, all the way up to his sternum. Read more.

6.10am: MURRAY BRIDGE: Jockey Caitlin Forrest has died after a four-horse fall at the Murray
Bridge Racecourse.

The 19-year-old crashed to the turf and was collected by the pack of horses behind her when riding in
the race before the Murray Bridge Gold Cup.

Forrest was semi-conscious and responsive when airlifted to hospital, but her condition deteriorated
and she died from her injuries

Her boyfriend, Scott Westover, paid tribute to the former Strathalbyn High School student on
Facebook.

"Today has been the worst day of my life. I lost the love of my life Caitlin Forrest," his post read. "I
know there will be an angel up there watching me everyday and riding with me." Full story here.

6.05am: NOWRA: A paramedic on the Ambulance Helicopter that rescued the pilot of a crashed
plane west of Nowra has told of the man's miraculous escape.

Paramedic David Zids was part of the rescue team that located the 22-year-old at the wreckage of a
1970s Cessna 206 in bushland near Touga in the Morton National Park around 1pm.

The man was treated at the scene and was airlifted to Wollongong Hospital with minor injuries
including a cut above his eye. More here.

6.00am: REGIONAL: Let's start your day with a spin around Fairfax newspaper front pages today.
Click here.

" A University of Sydney academic involved in the national curriculum review, Barry Spurr, has
reportedly described Prime Minister Tony Abbott an "abo-lover" in an exchange of emails.

"Abo Lover Abbott and [Australian of the Year] Adam Goodes are Siamese Twins and will have to be
surgically separated," Professor Spurr wrote in an email published on the New Matilda website.

The university said an investigation into the report was underway.
In a series of different email exchanges, he used the terms "Mussies, Chinky-Poos, bogans and
fatsoes," labelled Archbishop Desmond Tutu a "witch doctor," and Nelson Mandela a "Darkie,"
according to the website.

Professor Spurr was employed by the independent review into the national curriculum, commissioned
by the federal government, as a specialist consultant to review the English curriculum. Read more.

" Medibank Private managing director George Savvides has said Australians overpay for common
surgeries such as hip replacements and caesarean sections, as the health insurer ramps up its
campaign to put a lid on private hospital costs before its $4 billion-plus float. Read more.

Page38of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved." Public servants want isolation units set up in Canberra to quarantine government officials returning
from Ebola-stricken regions of Africa.

The demand comes as the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade confirmed its top doctor had
visited Australian diplomatic posts in African nations hit by the epidemic to "discuss key issues arising
from the outbreak."

The departmental staffers accuse their bosses of "dereliction of duty and failing to show respect to
employees and the Australian public" by not being upfront about plans to cope if an Australian official
contracts the disease. More here.

" A bump in the take-up of smoking among women in the early 1980s is now being echoed in lung
cancer rates, which are rising for women while falling for men.

The state's first comprehensive report on lung cancer, released by the Cancer Institute of NSW on
Friday, shows that it is the number one killer among cancers. Only 18 of every 100 people diagnosed
survive beyond five years.

Chief Cancer Officer and Cancer Institute chief executive David Currow said tobacco consumption
had dramatically decreased since the 1970s, when 70 per cent of the adult population smoked.
Details here.

" A day of Caulfield Cup carnage has seen two horses scratched and another two facing vet
inspections on Friday.

Racing Victoria veterinary stewards will examine two of the main hopes in Gai Waterhouse's The
Offer and star Japanese stayer Bande ahead of Saturday's $3 million race.

Gris Caro and last year's second placegetter Dandino were scratched on Thursday, with Dandino's
racing career now in jeopardy. Read more.

" Dan Lee watched his two daughters grow from curly-haired little girls to young women in the time
Canberra's famous lake went from a trickle of water to a large expanse.

The changes have been captured in three precious family portraits of the trio, each snapped by Mr
Lee's wife Nancye, over 50 years.

They have made a point of posing for the same photograph every 25 years to document their
changing faces and also the transformation of Lake Burley Griffin. Read more.

" The Texas hospital where two nurses were infected with the Ebola virus said it followed federal
guidelines to protect against the spread of the deadly pathogen, as Dallas County officials called an
emergency meeting to consider asking Governor Rick Perry to declare a local emergency.

The move comes after two registered nurses, Nina Pham and Amber Vinson, were diagnosed with
Ebola infections after treating Liberian Thomas Eric Duncan, who died October 8 at Texas Health
Presbyterian Hospital.
Controversy continued to swirl over why Ms Vinson flew on commercial flights to Cleveland and
back to Dallas while she was among dozens of healthcare workers who had been asked to monitor
and report potential Ebola infection signs and symptoms. More here.

" Australian Speaker Bronwyn Bishop has lost her bid for the presidency of an international
democracy group, with a string of recent political scandals contributing to the defeat.

The Speaker was in the running to lead the Inter-Parliamentary Union, an organisation of parliaments
that promotes democracy.

Ms Bishop came second to Bangladesh's Saber Chowdhury in the second and final round of voting at
the IPU's assembly in Geneva. There were also candidates from Indonesia and the Maldives "
meaning Australia was competing against a trio of Muslim states. More here.

" Apple has unveiled a thinner iPad with a faster processor and better camera as it tries to drive
excitement for tablets amid slowing demand.

The iPad Air 2, at 6.1mm "thin", also adds many of the features previously available on iPhones.

That includes the ability to take burst shots and slow-motion video and the inclusion of a fingerprint ID
sensor for use instead of a passcode. More here.

Page39of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved." Investors rushed into the safe haven of US bonds overnight on a wave of disappointing economic
data only to exit it just as fast, causing a massive intra-day swing in the yield on 10-year US
treasuries, which at one point dived as much as 14 per cent.

Overnight, US 10-year treasury yields dropped from a high of 2.17 per cent to a low of 1.86 per cent
in just over an hour, only to recover back to 2.15 per cent late in the trading session as investors took
profit and sold off bonds. Bond yields move inversely to prices.

"It was out and out carnage on the bond market," said National Australia Bank global co-head of FX
strategy Ray Attrill. Details here.

" Mystery surrounds the whereabouts of 176 people, including three women, who were on a people
trafficker's boat that left Bangladesh.
There are fears traffickers intend to sell those on board to fishing trawlers or factories as slave labour
in Malaysia and Indonesia.

Bangladesh officials are travelling to southern Thailand to interview 134 suspected victims who say
they were on the boat with the 176 others. Read more.

" Did you see this?

It is a decision 10-year-old Lucy Pierpont is confident about, but has her mother Kate very nervous -
the World's Greatest Shave.

Lucy has been closely affected by cancer. Last year a member of her family was diagnosed, her
uncle also died from the disease in 2011.

"I was in Broken Hill and we were talking about my uncle and I decided it would be a nice thing to
shave my head for my uncle. I thought it would be the right thing to do," Lucy said.

She started researching and found even more people who had been affected.

"I also found out that one of my friend's grandmas had cancer as well and my aunty also had cancer."

Without any hesitation, the Dubbo girl told her mum she wanted to participate in the World's Greatest
Shave. Read more.

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gout : Outbreaks/Epidemics | gcat : Political/General News | ghea : Health
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | tasman : Tasmania | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz
: Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FGOULP0020141017eaag00005

Page40of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.