Utilities: not necessarily a power play

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Young Investor
Utilities: not necessarily a power play

2,296 words
27 January 2014
Business Times Singapore
STBT
English
(c) 2014 Singapore Press Holdings Limited

The electricity, water and gas sector is a hodgepodge of unsexy names and hot China stocks, reports
CAI HAOXIANG

FOR retirees who are looking to invest their money, or for a risk-averse person just starting out, a
common question will be: What are the stable stocks in the market? Not everyone is interested in
chasing the latest technology initial public offering (IPO) that might be up 10 per cent one day and down
15 per cent the next. Rather, it is the counter that gives steady returns of 5-8 per cent a year that might
be more appealing.

Returns like these are nothing to sniff at when compounded over the long term. Assets that deliver 7.2
per cent a year, for instance, will have doubled in value over 10 years.

What businesses offer the lowest risk in the market? In theory, the providers of utilities such as
electricity, water and gas fall under this category.

After all, these businesses often enjoy a government-sanctioned monopoly, or might themselves be
partially owned by the government. Their revenue-generating assets - electricity lines, water treatment
plants, gas pipes, waste treatment plants - cost a lot to build, and there is no danger of rivals setting up
alternative networks anytime soon.

Income could be guaranteed by regulation, with prices fixed in advance for many years. This makes
future earnings easy to calculate. Moreover, the nature of the products provided makes the business
less vulnerable to economic shocks. During a downturn, companies and people may cut back on
investment or big-ticket consumer goods such as new cars, but they will continue to leave the lights on
and pay for water and cooking gas.
The medium-term growth story is also looking good. Market research company Frost & Sullivan noted
in a recent report that rising electricity demand, regional economic growth and falling coal prices mean
that the power generation industry will see continued investments. The company noted in another
report that the water industry is resilient as it supports socioeconomic activities.

But companies need to constantly reinvent themselves to stay ahead, while being prudent with their
investments. "It is not uncommon that water companies become too ambitious in taking up projects that
do not match their core competencies, and this may lead to unnecessary financial damages and
divestments," the report said.

In Singapore, the utilities sector contains a hodgepodge of the unsexy but high-performing Sembcorp
Industries, electricity distributor SP AusNet, sizzling-hot China stocks such as SIIC Environment and
HanKore, counters with trust structures such as K-Green Trust and Cityspring Infrastructure Trust, and
home-grown multinational Hyflux.

While the theory of investing in the utilities sector sounds good, the reality is quite different. An
examination of the various utilities companies listed here can illuminate.

For one thing, prices may be guaranteed but demand is not. The recent unusually cool tropical weather
in Singapore might mean less demand for electricity for air-conditioning and fans, for example.

Page162of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Also, some utilities companies have a business model where they bid for projects and then develop
them. Hiccups in the process can incur large expenses. The number of projects that they tender for may
also fall in the event of global economic uncertainty.

Eventually, the certainty of income flows at prices fixed by governments fades away as concession
agreements expire after 20 to 30 years. Investors should ask what happens next.

Another macroeconomic event to watch out for is rising interest rates as the US Federal Reserve slows
down its bond-buying programme on an improving US economy. Utilities companies may pay a
seemingly high yield now, but rising interest rates will make that yield less attractive, causing their
valuations to fall. Moreover, many companies have to take out large borrowings to fund their
expenditures in building power plants or water treatment plants. Rising rates mean a higher cost of debt,
which might put the company's solvency in doubt in the event of a downturn.

High yields, therefore, are not everything. A part of dividends paid may come from the return of the
initial investment of a company, called the "return of capital". This is not real income but effectively a
transfer of value from companies to shareholders, but non-savvy investors might mistakenly treat it as a
flow that will continue forever.

Investors also need to examine the nature of the financial vehicle that they are buying, as utilities
companies may be listed using opaque trust structures.

Finally, investors can consider diversifying by buying a range of utilities companies in an
exchange-traded fund (ETF). Both the Vanguard Utilities ETF and the iShares US Utilities ETF, for
example, have had annual average returns of more than 8 per cent for the last 10 years.

Total returns in this piece were all calculated by Bloomberg and are based on monthly returns, and
assuming that dividends are reinvested into the stock.

Sembcorp Industries and SP AusNet

Over a longer-term horizon, the star in Singapore's utilities sector has been the largest stock there,
Straits Times Index (STI) component Sembcorp Industries. If dividends are reinvested, Sembcorp has
generated yields of 20 per cent a year on average each year in the last 10 years, according to
Bloomberg. This is due to both its marine and utilities businesses.

The utilities business of Sembcorp Industries is currently its largest and most profitable segment, apart
from its also-sizeable marine segment. Sembcorp develops, owns and operates energy and water
assets. Sembcorp serves industrial and municipal customers, generating power, supplying steam and
natural gas, treating wastewater as well as providing desalinated and drinkable water.
Net profit from its utilities segment has grown steadily in the last five years from $202 million in 2008 to
$375 million in 2012. In its latest earnings report in Nov 11, 2013, Sembcorp said that the utilities
business should perform better for the full year despite greater competition in the Singapore gas and
power market. Meanwhile, the company has a pipeline of projects in Singapore, India, the United Arab
Emirates, China and the United Kingdom.

Sembcorp distributes dividends annually with ex-dates at end-April. Ordinary dividends in the past four
years have been 15 cents a share, with bonus dividends of two cents in 2010 and 2011. At 15 cents a
share, this translates to a yield of 2.8 per cent on its last traded price of $5.30.

After Sembcorp, the next largest utilities counter in Singapore is Australian utilities provider SP AusNet,
which is 31-per cent owned by a unit of Temasek Holdings-held Singapore Power. It distributes
electricity and gas in the south-eastern Australian state of Victoria, and has a secondary listing in
Singapore.

Last November, it declared an interim distribution of 4.18 Australian cents (4.65 Singapore cents) per
security, out of which 0.391 cent, or almost a tenth, is a "return of capital". Distributions are expected to
be 8.36 Australian cents per security for the full year, or a yield of 6.9 per cent on its last traded price of
A$1.205.
For its half-year results ended Sept 30, 2013, revenues were almost A$1 billion, while net profit was
close to A$100 million. Net profit would have been higher if not for A$87 million that the company
would have to pay after Australian courts ruled against it in a dispute with the Australian Taxation Office.
SP AusNet is appealing.

A bit of historical trivia here - SP AusNet was the first stapled security to list in Singapore in 2005. This
is a structure common to property and infrastructure companies in Australia where two separate legal

Page163of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.entities are bound together. This allows the company to distribute cash as well as gives it more more
flexibility when carrying out future acquisitions, SP AusNet has said. But while giving tax advantages to
owners, these structures can be opaque and give investors limited control rights, and the real
advantages to minority investors are unclear, according to an article by the non-partisan Australian
Centre for Financial Studies.

SP AusNet's eight-year average return was 8.7 per cent a year.

Hyflux
Another utilities company that Singaporeans might be familiar with is homegrown water treatment
company Hyflux. Its executive chairman Olivia Lum won many awards for her entrepreneurship.
The company started out as a distributor for water treatment equipment, eventually branching out into
designing, building and running custom-made water treatment systems. It went public in 2001 and went
on to clinch various key projects here and around the region, including the construction of Singapore's
first desalination plant, as well as its first Newater plant. The second, called Tuaspring, opened last
September. It is also involved in a major desalination project in India.

Hyflux employs 2,400 people around the world, according to its 2012 annual report. Its annual revenues
have grown from around $10 million at its IPO to $682 million in 2012. Its order book at end-2012 was
almost $3 billion.

Hyflux's 10-year return was 6.9 per cent a year on average.

Indonesian plays: Gallant and ISDN

Gallant Venture is a utilities and industrial park provider in the Indonesian islands of Batam and Bintan.
It also owns a smaller resorts business, Bintan Resorts. It also has a property development component.
In end-2012, the company bought into vehicle distributor PT Indomobil Sukses Internasional Tbk
(IMAS), which manages brands such as Audi, Nissan, Renault, Suzuki, Volkswagen and Volvo.
While the vehicle distribution acquisition boosted revenues and profits, the outlook for Gallant's core
business is not as bright. "The industrial park and utilities business remain challenging, and electricity
consumption remains depressed," Gallant wrote in its Nov 1, 2013 third-quarter results. "With increasing
labour cost, high fuel cost and potential surcharge on gas purchases, the industrial parks' and utilities'
margin will be impacted."

ISDN Holdings, an engineering solutions provider, could also be an interesting utilities play to watch. It
is diversifying into energy projects in the region. It is planning to develop a string of mini-hydropower
plants in Indonesia. A plan to develop the largest coal power plant in Myanmar is also in the works.

Gallant Venture's 7.5-year return was negative 8.6 per cent a year, according to Bloomberg.

Meanwhile, ISDN shares shot up more than three times last year, with its price up 10 times at one point.
This boosted its eight-year return to 14 per cent a year.

K-Green Trust, Cityspring

Then there are a couple of companies with business trust structures.

K-Green Trust was spun off by conglomerate Keppel Corp in 2010 as a vehicle comprising the Senoko
Waste-to-Energy Incineration Plant, the Keppel Seghers Tuas Waste-to-Energy Plant and the Ulu
Pandan Newater Plant assets. The term of agreements entered with authorities for the assets to
operate is from 15 to 25 years. It has not made any new acquisitions yet.

The trust said on its website that it has potential for long-term capital growth, as it will invest in green
infrastructure assets in Singapore and globally. These assets operate under long-term agreements,
have a competitive advantage because they are difficult to replicate, and also enjoy inelastic demand.

But assets may have a finite life, and investors have to value them by their projected cash flows over
that life, instead of assuming that flows will continue forever. K-Green Trust pays dividends partially out
of declining "service concession receivables", which are rights to receive fixed or determinable
payments from the National Environment Agency and national water agency PUB.

Thus some observers have been critical of the trust, pointing that investors should not just look at the
trust's yield alone. AmFraser Research, which maintained a "sell" call on the trust last Tuesday, pointed

Page164of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.out that its then-7.4 per cent yield masks a partial return of capital - essentially the trust drawing down
on its assets to pay back investors, instead of earning an additional return on those assets.

Cityspring Infrastructure Trust, meanwhile, is involved in several utilities activities. Wholly owned
subsidiary City Gas produces and supplies town gas in Singapore. Cityspring's gas operations are the
trust's biggest revenue and profit contributor. Meanwhile, a 70 per cent owned unit, SingSpring, is the
first desalination plant that Hyflux built in Singapore. Hyflux currently owns the remaining 30 per cent of
SingSpring.

Wholly owned Cityspring subsidiary Basslink owns and operates a 370 km underwater power cable
linking mainland Australia with the Tasmanian island. Basslink owns Basslink Telecoms, which provides
telecommunication services between Hobart in Tasmania and Melbourne on the mainland.

Wholly owned Cityspring subsidiary CityNet owns, installs, operates and maintains the assets of
NetLink Trust - a unit of telco giant SingTel that recently bought OpenNet, Singapore's ultra-fast fibre
broadband network.

Cityspring currently pays a 6.9 per cent yield, according to Bloomberg. Despite the apparent strength of
Cityspring's assets, its stock price performance has been uninspiring especially for those who have
bought the shares since its IPO. Shares have been languishing below 50 cents for much of the past
two-and-a-half years, a fair distance from its IPO price of 89 cents or its adjusted IPO price of 69 cents
after rights issues.

Cityspring's five-year performance according to Bloomberg was 12 per cent a year, while its seven-year
performance was about negative 5 per cent a year.

K-Green Trust has five-year returns of about 5 per cent a year.

ART

NS

RE

PUB
AN

Home-grown: Hyflux executive chairman Olivia Lum - who has won many awards for her
entrepreneurship - at the company's Tuaspring desalination plant. - THE STRAITS TIMES FILE
PHOTO
melec : Electricity Markets | c1711 : Initial Public Offerings | ginved : Investment Advice/Investor
Education | c02 : Corporate Changes | c14 : Stock Listings | c17 : Funding/Capital | c171 : Share Capital
| cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | gpersf :
Personal Finance | gpersi : Personal Investments | m14 : Commodity Markets | m143 : Energy Markets |
mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E
Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | singp : Singapore | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
seasiaz : Southeast Asia
Singapore Press Holdings Limited
Document STBT000020140126ea1r0000o

Page165of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.