Corporate: Infinio seeks new lifeline in mining ; may struggle to regain investors’ trust

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Corporate: Infinio seeks new lifeline in mining; may struggle to regain investors’ trust

By Frankie Ho
1,656 words
17 February 2014
The Edge Singapore
EDGESI
English
(c) 2014 The Edge Publishing Pte Ltd. All Rights Reserved.

If failure is a key to success, Infinio Group may be a step closer to finally getting it right. After several
unsuccessful business ventures over the years, the loss-making company is again attempting to
reinvent itself. This time, it has its sights set on
mining. And to make sure it doesn’t bite off more than it can chew, it is intent on starting small in the new
business.

Australia will be the first market Infinio will set foot in as it seeks to carve out a niche in the natural
resources sector. On Feb 7, it secured shareholders’ approval for its diversification into mining, paving
the way for it to take over a gold mine in Western Australia. First announced last July, the $6.5-million
acquisition is expected to be completed by the end of the month.

Infinio is buying the 57.8ha mine from Summit Light Ventures, a special purpose vehicle set up in the
British Virgin Islands and owned by five private investors, including

Doris Chung, wife of Raffles Education Corp CEO Chew Hua Seng; and Lim Yeow Sun, who runs a
jewellery business and used to trade minerals and other resources.
The company will pay $2.9 million in cash and $3.6 million in shares for the mine. Some 1.2 billion
Infinio shares at 0.3 cent apiece will be placed out to the five vendors, giving them a combined stake of
more than 20% in Infinio. None of them will have a seat on Infinio’s board, although the company will
seek Lim’s help in securing mining projects in future. The opportunity in Western Australia was brought
to Infinio’s attention by one of its former independent directors.
“We will start small and grow from there. There are risks involved in mining, so we are going in on a
small scale,” Keith Wong, Infinio’s non-executive director, tells The Edge Singapore. “There are many
companies listed in Singapore with mining operations but we don’t want to be like some of them,” he
says, noting their difficulty in delivering what they had initially envisioned.
Wong, 44, is expected to be appointed Infinio’s executive director once the acquisition is completed.
The former KPMG corporate finance consultant is the only director on Infinio’s five-member board with
some experience in mining, having once worked at a start-up involved in silicon mining in Australia.

Exploration and production work on the Western Australia mine was first carried out in 1911 and over the
decades, the asset saw several changes in ownership. Based on the most recent data available, the
mine can yield at least 30,000 ounces of gold resources and potentially more than 100,000 ounces.

Infinio expects the mine to have a remaining lifespan of between 15 and 20 years, depending on the rate
of extraction. The mine stopped production in 2010 following a spat between its owners and mining
contractors. It last yielded about 1.14kg of gold, which was sold for about US$1.5 million ($1.9 million).

“We understand from the previous owners that the amounts sold to the mint were not properly declared
to them. They didn’t know what the mint paid for the output and how much was actually sold to the mint,”
Wong says. “As a result, there was an argument with the miners as to how much they would be paid.”

Page49of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Getting the mine back to the production phase can be done fairly quickly, as new water tanks, pipes and
accommodation facilities have been installed on-site, paid for by the current owners. If Infinio can
maintain the cost of production at about A$400 ($457) an ounce, which was what the previous owners of
the mine last incurred in 2010, there will be “quite a bit of meat left for us” given where gold spot prices
are at the moment, Wong figures.
“The spot price of gold may be a little low but I don’t see it falling significantly. I think it will hold at around
US$1,400 [an ounce] by year-end,” he says. “This site has been mined successfully for the last 10, 12
years by a three, four-man crew. Why can’t we go in on the same basis?”
The cash portion of the acquisition will be paid for with proceeds from equity-linked convertible notes
issued by Infinio. It initiated the cash call in 2012 to raise up to $10 million for working capital and
general corporate purposes. Over $3 million has been raised so far. When more notes are issued and
get converted into Infinio shares, the combined stake of the five vendors is expected to be substantially
lower than the 21.6% they will end up with once the acquisition is completed.
Beyond gold
Besides gold, Infinio is also studying mining opportunities for other resources, such as coal, copper
and iron. In addition to Australia, it is looking at Indonesia, where a coal project and a nickel project
have been brought to its attention by Summit Light shareholder Lim.
Infinio is also considering arranging an off-take agreement between a coal mine in Indonesia and a
power plant in South Korea. An off-take agreement is usually negotiated before the construction of a
mine in order to secure a market for its future output.

“This will be purely a trading business for us. This way, we don’t have to come up with the capital to buy
the mine. It’s a huge mine,” says Wong. “The problem with a lot of these deals is that no one wants to
take the risks.
“Each shipment of coal — the minimum is 60,000 tonnes — costs US$50 to US$60 a tonne. No one
dares to take the risk, unless you are certain of a buyer. We need to make sure we are properly hedged
before we go in, otherwise we will get screwed.”

Dismal track record

Indeed, having gotten the short end of the stick in various business deals over the years, Infinio will do
well to tread carefully in its mining endeavour. Formerly known as Auston International Group, a private
education services provider, the company bowed out of the business in 2009 owing to stiff competition,
selling it for a mere $2.2 million.

It ventured into the Internet Protocol TV business that year by acquiring Broadband Network Systems
(BNS), a Hong Kong-based multimedia content and technology provider. Among other things, the move
enabled Infinio to work with media organisations and telcos locally and abroad.

But rolling out TV set-top boxes to hotels, a key target group for its IPTV business, became a challenge
as many were locked up by existing contracts with other providers and had to turn down BNS. Infinio
shut down the business in 2011 after BNS could not pay its staff and creditors.

Hoping to reverse its fortunes, Infinio sought to get into the biofuel business in 2011 by offering to buy an
Indonesian company that grows Nipah palm, which produces sugar, an ingredient for making ethanol.
The proposed $382-million acquisition of Ephraim Resources, the target company, would have
resulted in a reverse takeover as Infinio had planned to pay for it in shares. The deal was called off after
almost two years, as certain conditions were not met.

In 2012, Infinio teamed up with a leading educational media group in South Korea to jointly develop
multimedia content for preschool children. However, the long gestation period — from development to
sales — and the constant evolution of both hardware and software were too much for Infinio to stomach,
forcing it to pull the plug on the South Korean business.

Leadership vacuum

“The original forecasts for the various businesses, in terms of revenue, were never met. There were a lot
of pipeline projects but they remained as pipeline projects and were never converted,” says Wong. That
was partly why Infinio has been without a CEO since Jeffrey Soong resigned in August 2011 to attend to
family commitments, after being on the job for only about two years.

Page50of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Richard Hong, a long-serving director at Infinio, was named acting CEO in 2011. He stepped down in
December 2012 but remains a board director. “It’s hard to get someone in as CEO when you haven’t got
a basis to appoint someone. For a while, there wasn’t a clear direction for the company,” Wong
concedes.

Even Wong himself, who joined Infinio in 2007 as an executive director, left the board at one point. He
stepped down in 2010 to join a start-up in silicon mining, only to return as a non-executive director a
year later after that company failed to make headway. “Things were thrown to Richard Ho D’Orville,
Infinio’s executive director, to handle after the CEO left. He asked me to come back to help with certain
things because I was familiar with a lot of the corporate matters. So, I came back on an ad hoc basis to
assist. Eventually, they asked me to come back to the board,” says Wong. D’Orville, in his 70s, is still
Infinio’s executive director.

Given the various failed business ventures and departures of senior executives, Infinio will no doubt have
its work cut out in trying to convince investors of the merits of its foray into mining. Still, if it gets it right
this time, it may be able to make up for what it lost over the years from failing to pull off one business
deal after another.
Infinio has a market value of less than $7 million, based on its current share price of barely 0.3 cent, a
far cry from its IPO price of 28 cents in 2003, when it was in the private education business.

CO

IN

RE

auston : Infinio Group Ltd | raflas : Raffles Education Corporation Limited | pnmdsp : Elecktromotive
Group Ltd
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i983 :
Educational Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
singp : Singapore | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | seasiaz : Southeast Asia

PUB The Edge Publishing Pte Ltd
AN

Document EDGESI0020140219ea2h00006

Page51of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.