Asco’s takeover fits global ‘jigsaw’

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Asco’s takeover fits global ‘jigsaw’

keith findlay
411 words
23 May 2014
The Press and Journal
FABP
36
English
(c) 2014 The Press and Journal Limited .

Oil and gas logistics firm Asco Group has taken a 60% stake in Australia’s Bonnie Rock
Transport and is working on two more acquisitions.

Derek Smith, Aberdeen-based Asco’s chief executive, told the Press and Journal the Bonnie
Rock deal was a key part of the “jigsaw” of the firm’s global expansion.

Asco has options to buy the rest of Bonnie Rock, which is based near Perth in Western Australia
and employs 160 people in its onshore and offshore operations down under.

Its services include warehousing and distribution, container transport and freight distribution
across Australia.
The company – founded in 1998 – has depots in Perth, Dampier, Dongara and Broome in
Western Australia, as well as Chinchilla in Queensland.
Asco’s initial majority stake cost it £15million, funded from a recent £40million finance package
from a banking syndicate led by HSBC.

Mr Smith said: “We are focused on finishing the geographic jigsaw.

“The addition of Bonnie Rock to our portfolio means that we can support offshore and onshore
customers through the entire supply chain cycle.

“In addition, Australia’s onshore Perth, Canning Basins are the focus of growing international
attention due to their conventional and now unconventional oil and gas.

“This gives us some fabulous opportunities to be involved with some leading operators who are
investing millions of dollars to explore these areas”.
Matt Thomas, the firm’s chief executive for Australasia, added: “Bonnie Rock Transport is a
perfect fit with Asco Group’s international activities and our expansion plans.

“Asco is building a significant footprint in Australia, with our management of the Darwin marine
supply base, our acquisition of Brisbane-based global inventory and asset management
business Oniqua in 2012.”
Asco’s latest push into the Australian market comes after the company more than halved losses
last year. Annual results just released by the group show pre-tax losses narrowed to
£5.41million, from nearly £13.6million previously.
The firm’s 2012 financial performance was affected by costs from a string of acquisitions, while
a change in the reporting method has also had an impact on year-to-year comparisons.

Asco highlighted a 158% increase in operating profits to £14.8million last year on total revenue
up 13.3% to £768.6million.

Page135of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.A £60million-plus contract won during the year to provide supply base services at the port of
Mtwara in Tanzania gave the firm a firm foothold in east Africa.

i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1 : Energy
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cacqu : Acquisitions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio
: Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
NEWS:OTHER:Others
Aberdeen Journals Limited
Document FABP000020140523ea5n0001n

IN
NS

RE
IPD
PUB
AN

Page136of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.