RIM CRUDE/CONDENSATE NO.4800 MARKET COMMENTARY --ASIA PACIFIC CRUDE

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

RIM CRUDE/CONDENSATE NO.4800 MARKET COMMENTARY --ASIA PACIFIC CRUDE

817 words
18 July 2014
Rim Crude/Condensate Intelligence Daily
RIMCRD
English
(c) 2014 RIM INTELLIGENCE CO.

Flat prices for September-loading regional grades rebounded, mirroring a gain in the benchmark Dated
Brent prices. Meanwhile, in the floating based September-loading trade linked to Dated Brent and ICP,
prompt-loading Australian medium/heavy grades as well as light grades in Oceania led by Australia
started to have changed hands. Vietnamfs Chim Sao also was traded, indicating September-loading
business began gaining momentum.

In the trade of September-loading Kutubu in Papua New Guinea, the countryfs Oil Search recently sold
two cargoes. The producer with 60,000bbl each for first-half and late-half loading released them. A
source familiar with the matter said that at least one cargo may have been done at a small premium to
Dated Brent as the naphtha market was improving. Meanwhile, the buyer was unclear. Normally, Caltex
Australia and InterOil in Papua New Guinea purchase mainly purchase Kutubu on the spot market.
Meanwhile, European Trafigura would start buying crude oil for the 32,000 barrels per day (b/d) refinery
operated by InterOil in Papua New Guinea from September-loading. The move came after Interoil sold
its downstream assets including the refinery to Singapore-based Puma Energy. Tafigura is a major
shareholder for Puma Energy.

Regarding the market for September-loading Australiafs light grades, the countryfs Woodside Petroleum
heard sold Cossack on the spot market. The producer showed the Cossack at a premium of $1/bbl to
Dated Brent as reported. Therefore, the cargo was seen traded at least at a premium to Dated Brent.
Meanwhile, Australiafs resource firm Santos began marketing Mutineer Exeter. The company regarded
the reasonable values for Mutineer as about $1/bbl above Malaysian Tapis. No firm offer emerged for
September-loading Tapis, but a major source said that Tapis values should be at premiums of mid to
high $3/bbl to Dated Brent. Based on the values, the tradable levels for Mutineer Exeter would be at a
premium of mid to high $4/bbl to Dated Brent.

Discussions for Malaysiafs light grades as mentioned above have not started. Petronas is likely to start
September business initially from Labuan, but no movements were detected so far. The Malaysian oil
firm was seen reviewing September positions.
Vietnamfs state-owned PV Oil closed the second round of bids on Thursday in its September-loading
Chim Sao sell tender for three cargoes. Those cargoes were heard awarded at premiums of high $4/bbl
to low $5/bbl to dated Brent. The details about the loading dates were unknown. BP took one cargo at a
premium of high $4/bbl while Vitol and Taiyo Oil purchased one cargo each at a premium of around
$5/bbl and a premium of slightly larger than $5/bbl, to Dated Brent, respectively. gThose prices are
largely in line with expectations,h said a Japanese trading house source.
For other Vietnamese grades, production for Su Tu Den is set to increase. PV Oil was proceeding repair
works for the floating production storage and offloading (FPSO) facilities and the gas field, which could
boost production sharply from the fourth quarter. The current production for Su Tu Den was slightly
below 40,000 barrels per day (b/d). The production would be boosted to more than 70,000b/d. For the
July to December period, Petro Diamond, Itochu Corp, Petro Summit and China International United
Petroleum & Chemical Corp (UNIPEC) purchased Su Tu Den under term contracts, but PV Oil is likely
to sell excess avails via tender in view of rising production.

In the trade of the Rim Trading Board (RTB), BP Singapore offered a physical 100,000bbl cargo of
September-loading Attaka at $2/bbl below September ICE Brent. The major at the same time bid for
September Attaka/Ardjuna paper spread, 50,000bbl, at $3.75/bbl. Meanwhile, Petro Diamond bid for

Page73of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.September Attaka/Minas paper spread, 50,000bbl, at $2.5/bbl. Elsewhere, Itochu Petroleum Singapore
bid for September Attaka/Cinta paper spread, 50,000bbl, at $2/bbl, following the previous day.

In the trade of prompt-loading cargoes, additional information for Australian Enfield for June to
July-loading surfaced. One cargo would arrive in the Yokohama port, Japan as reported, and the cargo
was seen a partial cargo for June-loading, instead of a full 550,000bbl cargo. Meanwhile, one cargo was
bound for US Gulf as reported, and it turned out that the cargo was for end-July loading. Both of these
cargoes were sold by Woodside Petroleum and Mitsui & Co jointly. As for August-loading NWSC,
Australiafs BHP Billiton sold one cargo for 23-27 loading as reported. China National United Oil Corp or
Chinaoil was said to have purchased the cargo. The cargo was earlier thought to have been bought by
South Koreafs Samsung Total, but this was denied by the end-user in South Korea.

CO
IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

cltxa : Caltex Australia Ltd
i1 : Energy | i14 : Petroleum/Coal Products | i14001 : Petroleum Refining | iindstrls : Industrial Goods
m143 : Energy Markets | mcroil : Crude Oil Markets | mengpr : Energy Prices | m14 : Commodity
Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce
: FC&E Exclusion Filter
papng : Papua New Guinea | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | dvpcoz
: Developing Economies | pacisz : Pacific Islands
Rim Intelligence Co.
Document RIMCRD0020140718ea7i0000k

Page74of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.