Dairy newcomer looks to milk rising prices

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

MarketWatch
Dairy newcomer looks to milk rising prices

CRITERION WITH TIM BOREHAM
815 words
29 October 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
27
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Australian Dairy Farms Group (AHF) 22c FROM graphite to grass munchers: Syrah Resources Paul
Kehoe has emerged as a 10 per cent investor in this dairy farm consolidation play, along with a slew
of Hong Kong institutions.
Let’s hope there’s similar upside to be milked from buying up dairy farms as there was in discovering
tonnes of the flaky metal in Mozambique.

Last year’s takeover of Warrnambool Cheese & Butter* has left processor Bega Cheese as the only
listed dairy play. Listed via the shell of APA Financial Services, ADFGfills the void with an ambitious
plan to become a 50 million-litre-a-year producer.
ADFG debuted yesterday after raising $9.3 million at 20c per share, with the proceeds used to buy
two farms near Warrnambool producing a combined 7.5 million litres a year.
ADFG director Adrian Rowley says hitting the 50 million litre target would entail buying 14 to 16
similar-sized farms, at a cost of $80m-$100m.

This would make ADFG one of the country’s biggest producers in what’s a highly fragmented sector.
Rowley says the backers are exploiting a climate in which milk prices are firming, yet farm prices are
subdued because of a dearth of buyers. Unlike producing iron ore — or indeed graphite — higher
milk production means a higher average received price. That’s because the three producers have
excess capacity so are keen to attract the bigger suppliers.

“If we did nothing more than aggregate 10 farms we would get 13 per cent over the (producers’) base
price,’’ Rowley says.
He says the backers of the company received a few calls from Chinese investors, asking how much
they needed to invest to secure a board seat.
Rowley says the company should be immediately profitable, despite a dry spring. But investors are
really punting on capital growth as the company hoovers up farms from ageing cow cockies. Spec
buy.
Having said that, we caution Australian Natural Proteins (AYB, 0.4c) — a farm acquisition play based
on fat lamb production — has dwindled to irrelevance.
The Roger Corbett-chaired PrimeAg listed in 2007 with a similar land-grab charter, but sold the farm
to US interests last year.
*Don’t write in! Warrnambool Cheese & Butter (WCB, $8.30) remains listed because buyer Saputo
narrowly failed to reach the 90 per cent compulsory acquisition threshold.

Page44of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The stock occasionally trades and could be seen as a long-term buy on the assumption Saputo
returns to mop up the recalcitrant holders.

Vocation (VET) 99.5c AN unusual consequence of the training provider’s 56 per cent share implosion
yesterday is that the instos, rather than retail investors, end up as the wood ducks.

Ahead of yesterday’s bombshell, the instos forked out $3.05 per share in September’s $74m raising.
The final stanza — a $10m share placement plan for retail holders — is to be priced at a 2.5 per cent
discount to the average price decided between November 17 and 21.

Depending on one’s view of the likely collateral damage from the Victorian snafu, that’s a further 2.5
per cent off a deeply discounted bargain — or still 97.5 per cent too much.

Having protested that the Victorian issue was not material, Vocation late on Monday revealed it had
forgone $19.6m in Victorian government subsidies, resulting in a $5m earnings hit and a 10-15 per
cent profit downgrade.

A government review decreed that three outsourced courses did not meet the required standards and
were inappropriate for the needs of some enrolled students.

The problems affected two of Vocation’s four Victorian-registered training organisations (RTOs),
BAWN and Aspin.

Vocation’s sandbagging strategy has been to roll these RTOs into the two untainted ones, ceasing the
practice of training provision and recruiting by third parties.

Yesterday’s lesson from Certificate in Corporate Governance 101 is that any management that
declares there’s nothing to see one day and then lobs an earnings grenade the next will find its
credibility in tatters. While the $19.6m had not been received, a portion relates to “earned” income
given the service has been provided. In effect, some of the amount is a de facto fine or penalty.

On revised guidance, Vocation trades on an earnings multiple of 6.5 times and a 10 per cent yield.
With flow-on nasties bound to emerge, that’s too good to be true.
We rated Vocation an avoid at $3.18 in June, after the company shelled out $84m for the Endeavour
College of Natural Health. We’ll continue to avoid this one, 2.5 per cent discount or not.

The Australian accepts no responsibility for stock recommendations. Readers should contact a
licenced financial adviser. The author does not hold shares in the stocks mentioned.

apaf : APA Financial Services Ltd | becoop : Bega Cheese Ltd | rsrhrl : Syrah Resources Limited
i010010502 : Dairy Cattle Farming | i413 : Dairy Products | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i0 :
Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | i0100105 : Cattle Farming | icnp : Consumer Goods | ifood : Food
Products | ilsfarm : Livestock Farming | i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i831 : Financial
Investments | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv :
Investing/Securities | imet : Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | reqrfb : Suggested Reading Food/Beverages/Tobacco | redit :
Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141028eaat00026

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page45of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.