DATA ROOM

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
DATA ROOM

EDITED BY BRIDGET CARTER
1,101 words
29 October 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
20
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Doubts over price for APN’s NZ float APN News & Media executives are expected to meet with
Australian institutions in the next two weeks for the planned float of its New Zealand business, which
it recently renamed NZME.

But there’s some suggestion advisers could get a frosty reception from Australian institutional
investors when they reveal how much the deal is likely to set them back.

On offer in APN’s stable are The New Zealand Herald, The Radio Network and the digital business
GrabOne.

While talk in the market is that APN is hoping to secure between 6 and 7 times earnings for a float of
the division, some question whether a price tag closer to about 4 times earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortisation is more appropriate in its attempts to create investor appetite.

Others closer to the business argue the pricing was justified, given APN’s more lucrative radio
business — New Zealand’s largest — had a higher multiple, more like 8 to 9 times earnings, and
offset the lower value assigned to print. The introduction of digital subscriptions is also hoped to
provide some upside.

APN has appointed New Zealand firms Forsyth Barr and First New Zealand as advisers for the float,
which comes after other larger banks such as Deutsche, UBS and Goldman Sachs were said to
have lost interest in the process because of the way it was being structured.

Grant Samuel conducted the due diligence, packaging and positioning on the $300m-plus New
Zealand business, leaving the advisers the job of selling it down for an IPO.

One option for how the deal could be structured, one source suggested, was as a “bought deal”,
which is akin to a block trade.
It effectively leaves the banks in a position where they first buy the stake earmarked for the IPO then
onsell it. However, sources close to APN have said no structure for the deal had yet been agreed.
APN’s plans are understood to involve the sale of a 60 per cent interest in the company to the
market, thought to be worth about $150m, with the remaining stake likely to be subject to escrow.
Some question whether the transaction could wind up in a similar situation to the New Zealand
business Hirepool, where Australian investors were favoured over smaller buyers across the
Tasman, only for them to show limited interest.

When attempts to secure Australian investor support were unsuccessful, Hirepool suspended its IPO
plans.

Meanwhile, it is understood that Mediaworks has accelerated plans for an IPO, with UBS on board
and at least one other yet-to-be appointed investment bank.

Page94of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The business owns New Zealand television channels TV3 and Four and a suite of radio stations,
including The Edge, The Rock and More FM.

Inghams’ float on track THE Ingham family’s modular housing park float, Tasman Lifestyle, is set to
have a market capitalisation of between $109 million and $129m.

Meetings with institutional investors began last Thursday, ahead of next week’s book build, with
shares priced at $1 each, in a deal handled by the Commonwealth Bank.

The pricing equates to between 13.5 and 16.5 times net profit forecasted for the 2015 financial year.

The deal would see the Ingham family and its interests stage a complete exit from the business, with
gross proceeds to be $72m.
Chief executive Rob Nichols owns about 20 per cent of the company and would retain his entire
stake.

The float would comprise a business owning up to 11 properties that could accommodate 1500
tenants at separate locations in NSW and Queensland.

There would be plans to buy more properties and for some development. Tasman Lifestyle would
have a forecasted distribution of 3.9 to 4.8 per cent. It would compete with other groups already
invested in the manufactured housing space.
These included the listed retirement operator Ingenia and Alceon, a company backed by investment
bankers Trevor Loewensohn and Phil Green.

Healthy start for Orion APN is not the only deal that adviser First NZ Capital is focused on across the
Tasman — it’s also among the firms working on the float of New Zealand-based health software
provider Orion Health.

The Auckland-based business, set to list in Australia, plans to expand across 30 countries, providing
software that helps hospitals manage healthcare information.
In the company’s lodged prospectus, it indicated its shares would be priced at a range between
$NZ4.30 and $NZ5.70 ($3.84 and $5.10) each.

Orion Health would raise between $NZ120m and $NZ155m in new shares and an entity associated
with founder and chief executive Ian McCrae would sell a stake worth up to $NZ5 million.
Based on the indicative price range, the company would have a market capitalisation between
$NZ600m and $NZ795m. The final price and number of new shares to be sold would be determined
in a book build on Thursday and Friday next week.
Mr McCrae, who founded the company in 1993, will remain the largest shareholder after the float
and retain about 50 per cent of the company.
First NZ National is joint lead manager with Deutsche Craigs and the business is slated to list on the
NZX and Australian Securities Exchange on November 26.
Buyers shun port sale INDIAN mining giant Adani Group outed Morgan Stanley as its adviser
yesterday for a potential selldown of its $2 billion Abbot Point coal port in Queensland.
But few buyers are said to have so far shown interest in the asset, which had been available for sale
since at least July, as first flagged by The Australian.

One thought was that the group would expand the port and retain the newly developed area, selling
off the existing port.
The port is one the nation’s most significant for emerging coal. Located 25km northwest of Bowen
on Queensland’s north coast, it is earmarked for expansion.
Mining giants BHP Billiton, Rio Tinto and Glencore Xstrata are its three main customers. Previous
options had included a sale, partial sale or refinancing as an increasing global coal supply caused
export demand for the commodity to plummet.

Groups such as Brookfield sounded out the asset several months ago, although it is not thought to
have netted any prospective buyer.

Page95of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Logical suitors would include groups that bid for the Newcastle Port such as China Merchants and
Hastings Funds Management.The asset is on offer at a time billions of dollars worth of
infrastructure assets are being poured on to the Australian market by governments and the private
sector.

prvnew : APN News & Media Ltd
i475 : Printing/Publishing | i4751 : Newspaper Publishing | imed : Media/Entertainment | ipubl :
Publishing
c1711 : Initial Public Offerings | c02 : Corporate Changes | c14 : Stock Listings | c17 :
Funding/Capital | c171 : Share Capital | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
| ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
nz : New Zealand | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141028eaat00022

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page96of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.