NSW:Newcastle will be 'jewel of Asia Pacific'

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

NSW:Newcastle will be 'jewel of Asia Pacific'

374 words
30 April 2014
Australian Associated Press General News
AAP
English
(c) 2014 Australian Associated Press Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved

PORT By Ehssan Veiszadeh

SYDNEY, April 30 AAP - Having shaken off its steel town reputation, NSW Premier Mike Baird has
vowed to transform Newcastle into the "jewel of the Asia Pacific".

Mr Baird has revealed a consortium comprising Hastings Funds Management and China Merchants
won the 98-year lease on the Port of Newcastle, earning $1.75 billion for the state.
Of that amount, $1.5 billion will be re-invested into the state's roads, schools and hospitals.
Mr Baird said $340 million from the proceeds would be used for the revitalisation of the Newcastle city
centre.

"It reflects a momentous result," Mr Baird said.

"It certainly puts the state and Newcastle on track for future prosperity."

But the government could not say when it will receive the money and over what period of the 98-year
lease.
The Port of Newcastle is the world's largest coal port, exporting 41 per cent of Australia's coal.

The city is now going to receive much needed urban renewal, the premier said.

"It is going to be renewed. It is going to be the jewel of the Asia Pacific," he said.

Mr Baird said the state "has much more financial flexibility to invest in the infrastructure that we need
across NSW that we didn't have before today.

"There's obviously more announcements to come but the firepower of NSW just got stronger."
The sale follows the long-term leases of Port Botany and Port Kembla in 2013, which together raised
$5.07 billion.
The proceeds from the sale will boost the government's dedicated infrastructure fund, Restart NSW, to
almost $7 billion.
Treasurer Andrew Constance said the sale was a strong endorsement of the mining industry in the
Hunter region, a traditional Labor stronghold.

But Opposition Leader John Robertson said the region is being short changed in the deal with only
$340 million, about 20 per cent of the total proceeds, going back.

"The new premier must explain to the people of the Hunter why the full proceeds are not remaining in
their hands," he said in a statement.

"Mike Baird is completely out of touch with the Hunter."

AAP ev/tdw/tjm/km/pmu

Page99of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CO
IN

RE

PUB
AN

hasfml : Hastings Funds Management Limited | wstpac : Westpac Banking Corporation Limited
i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150211 : Unit Trusts/Mutual Funds | ifinal : Financial
Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Australian Associated Press Pty Ltd
Document AAP0000020140430ea4u004xt

Page100of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.