The $13b beer baron eyeing up Australand

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
The $13b beer baron eyeing up Australand

Su-Lin Tan
721 words
7 June 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
39
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Thai bidder A self-made man is about to grab a vast portfolio of assets.

Most Australians visiting Thailand have a sip of the local brew, Chang, eye-catching with its green
elephant-adorned label.

Today the beer has more connection with Australia than ever before.
The owner of the company who makes Chang, Charoen Sirivadhanabhakdi, is about to become
Australia's richest property billionaire.
On Wednesday, Charoen's Singapore-based property company, Frasers Centrepoint Limited (FCL),
made a surprise $2.6 billion bid for the diversified Australand Property Group.
Frasers's all-cash $4.48 per security offer knocked the previous scrip bid, of $4.35 from local property
heavyweight Stockland, out of the park.

Frasers already has a substantial development operation in Australia with a pipeline of 2300
apartments including Central Park in Sydney and Queens Riverside in Perth, as well as managing
stakes in properties such as Perth's Central Park and Canberra's Chisholm Centre for Singapore listed
real estate investment trusts.
Charoen has long owned the Park Hyatt in Canberra and what is now the Intercontinental in Adelaide.

To that portfolio he is about to add Australand's $2.4 billion worth of office towers and logistics
facilities, $1.8 billion of commercial development and $7.5 billion housing pipeline.

Charoen only gained control of Frasers last year, paying $S13.8 billion ($11.8 billion) in an aggressive
takeover battle for the 130-year-old Singapore conglomerate, Fraser & Neave (F&N). In doing so,
Charoen displaced Lee Hsien Yang, the son of Singapore's founding father, Lee Kuan Yew. as F&N's
Chairman.

F&N produced much of Singapore and Malaysia's canned beverages but the real prize was the
property operation, Frasers Centrepoint.
It has housing projects in Singapore, China and Australia; manages malls and commercial property,
and operates and has interests in more than 8000 serviced apartments from Glasgow to Sydney.
Earlier this year the $4.5 billion Frasers Centrepoint was spun out of the group and listed separately in
Singapore with Charoen's interests holding 88 per cent.

Valued at $US12.2 billion ($13.15 billion) by the latest Forbes Billionaires List, the "liquor tycoon" was
not always wealthy.

Page87of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.In a classic rags to riches story, this self-made billionaire is the sixth of 11 children of a Chinese
immigrant mussel-pancake street vendor in Bangkok.

At the age of nine, he was already a talented entrepreneur. Later, he started supplying a
government-owned whisky distillery, and managed to get a stake in the then state owned liquor
production market through his business, TCC Group. In Bangkok, TCC Group owns the tech-mall
Pantip Plaza in Bangkok. It also owns hotels in the US, Australia and Asia, as well as retail,
commercial and residential buildings in Thailand and Singapore. Charoen's empire also spills into
insurance and agribusiness.

Now 70, he is married to Khunying Wanna  and has five children, most of them in the family business.

Khunying Wanna plays an influential role as vice-chairman of F&N.

One son, Panote Sirivadhanabhakdi, is also a director of F&N, and has interests in Australia
companies, Tropical Almond Development, Grand Willow Development and Golden Shower
Development.

His other son, Thapana Sirivadhanabhakdi is Thai Beverage's president and chief executive officer.

In 1987 the Thai Royal office gave Charoen his surname, Sirivadhanabhakdi, which means "goodness,
prosperity, loyalty".
Charoen also briefly dabbled in football sponsorship , trying to buy Liverpool in 2004, but ended up
doing a sponsorship deal with Merseyside rivals Everton.

Not happy with just being a "capitalist crony" as some may call him in Thailand, he has holds
numerous honorary degrees from Thai universities.

Charoen has a collection of royal decorations including the Knight Grand Cordon (Special Class) of the
Most Exalted Order of the White Elephant.

His last interview to the foreign press was to Forbes in 2005.

A local taxi driver was quoted in the Forbes article saying: "If you drink Heineken, you look so high
class. It's expensive, but it tastes good. Normally I drink Singha. Chang is for the labourer. It means
you have no money."

But the beer baron does, and he is about to spend it in Australia.

CO
IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

ahlaus : Australand Property Group | ceprol : Frasers Centrepoint Ltd | dbsl : CapitaLand Limited
ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | i85 :
Real Estate Transactions | i8500031 : Residential Property Dealing/Owning | ibcs :
Business/Consumer Services | irreal : Residential Real Estate
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | thail : Thailand | singp : Singapore | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | seasiaz :
Southeast Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140606ea670001g

Page88of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.