Vale fails in bid for diversity

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Vale fails in bid for diversity

Matthew Stevens
1,197 words
4 December 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
32
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Matthew Stevens
Vale's decision to retreat to its iron roots in Brazil represents a dramatic shift in the geopolitics of the
mega-miners as much as it does acceptance that an expensive, boom-time pitch for diversity has
well and truly failed.

Still uncertain, preparations to spin out the Brazilian mining champion's base metals complex could
relieve Vale of a world of pain and complication and see its ambitions trimmed to its host continent.

Whether by plan or satisfying coincidence, this fits hand in glove with the ambitions of Vale's biggest
shareholder, the state of Brazil.

The government sacked Vale's great internationalist, Roger Angelli, in 2011 after the chief executive
appeared to thoroughly ignore encouragement to focus more productively on South American
opportunities, rather than pursue further foreign campaigns.

Vale, of course, is still majority owned by the government. So what it wants matters.

Pretty much from the moment Angelli was shunted, the structural separation of Vale seemed a live
option. And the fact that Vale has confirmed a potential divorce, as we arrive at what feels like a new
low point in the commodities cycle, only reinforces that perceived inevitability.

Quite naturally, Vale's reassessment of its base metals business will be seen through the same lens
as BHP Billiton's decision to package up its sub-scale businesses and deliver it to existing
shareholders.

But this idea is less valid than it might at first glance seem.

Vale says the review of base metals is about recovering the slimline fitness necessary to sustain and
grow through the marathon that will be the future of its core business, iron ore. BHP's motivation is
very different, though the outcome seems the same.

SpinCo is made from commodity silos that will only grow outside of the newly concentrated BHP
family. The SpinCo names contribute just more than 5 per cent of BHP's profit, and they barely justify
the sustaining capital they require, given the Global Australian's core four generate internal rates of
return on capital of better than 25 per cent.

Effectively, SpinCo eats capital and management time without adding anything like the equivalent
benefit.

In contrast, Vale's base metals business pretty much represents all of its global aspirations and, over
the most recent quarter, the group currently generates almost a third of the group's top-line earnings.

Page152of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.In short, BHP's pruning leaves its basic strategy unchanged, while Vale's review sets the scene for a
very new era indeed.Asset sell-offs

The other point of perceived concert between the Vale and BHP initiatives is that new management is
selling off assets acquired in unnecessary and failed mergers.

No doubt, the mass of SpinCo's assets arrived with BHP's merger with Billiton in 2000, while the bulk
of Vale's base metal business came with its takeover of Inco. But, again, first glances deceive.

Debate over the cost of BHP's alliance with Billiton continues to rage. But it misses the point because
it starts from the wrong place.

The right question to ask is whether BHP is a better business because of the merger? The only
answer to that is yes.

Billiton very quickly transformed BHP from a business unable to afford to pay a dividend (for that was
the prospect in 2000) into one able to ride the cycle and emerge as the world's biggest diversified
miner.

Vale, on the other hand, was left in a state of confused stasis by the Inco deal, and the complications
of capital allocation, culture and management it created.
When Vale paid $US18.9 billion ($22.3 billion) for Canada's second-biggest company back in
October 2006, the Brazilian was by a healthy distance the world's biggest iron ore producer. Then,
Vale produced just more than 300 million tonnes a year of iron ore. Its two Australian competitors,
Rio Tinto and BHP Billiton, added another 230 million tonnes to the system.
Over the next eight years while Vale sat in a time warp, increasing production to only 350 million
tonnes a year, the Australians seized the day.
Today, Australia exports 700 million tonnes a year to global steel makers, with Rio saying it is
headed to 360 million tonnes a year, and BHP convinced that its most productive course takes it to
290 million tonnes annually.
Oh and let's not forget the third force, Fortescue, which is currently running well above its 155 million
tonne production target. Vale's investments

Instead of pressing the pedal on growth, Vale concentrated on reducing the cost of getting its
material to market.

It invested against a fleet of massive boats called the Valemax to trim shipping costs, only to have
them banned from entering Chinese ports.

So it is that, as its base metals divestment was confirmed a possibility, Vale was cutting the ribbon on
a new $US1.4 billion iron ore port in Malaysia. Built to receive 400,000 tonne Valemax boats, it will
be Vale's new regional hub.

But, however you cut it, and for whatever reason, the net result of Vale's experiment in growth
through acquisition has been that the core business is weaker, and now head office has decided
that it does not want to carry the weight of a highly complicated set of nickel and copper businesses.
The worrying risk for Vale is that while the seaborne iron ore trade stays in surplus, it is the marginal
producer.

There must be delicious irony in this for Australian operators with long memories.
Brazil's stunningly rapid rise in the early 1970s to pre-eminence in the iron ore business was built by
the Japanese steel mill's determination to foster competition and their understandable concerns over
Australia's growing unreliability.

Now, with the markets in surplus and Australian producers driving their costs ever lower, while
running their systems at world class reliability, Vale has been left the most vulnerable of iron ore's
majors to the potential demand shock ahead.
News that US oil services king-pin Schlumberger had taken the lead in big oil's response to market
calamity by taking a $US800 million write-down on its offshore exploration fleet will likely also
resonate around BHP Billiton.

Page153of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Schlumberger is BHP's driller of choice in the US shale game. And according to some inspired
computing by Deutsche Bank, the contractor might be headed for some onshore pain as well.

At current prices, the DB model says BHP's Permian wells would not be making their cost of capital
and those in the more established Black Hawk would be generating only a 20 per cent internal rate of
return.
The model also says that, if oil prices continue to orbit $65, BHP's shale business risks missing its
target to be cash flow positive by 2018.

Wryly, DB offered an answer. Current high US gas prices suggest a return to the dry gas at
Haynesville and Fayetteville could be a better short term growth option.

The Fayetteville, of course, was recently added to BHP's list of potential disposals.

CO
IN

RE
PUB
AN

cvrd : Vale S.A.
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141203eac40002p

Page154of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.