Market lures overseas buyers

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

RealEstate
Market lures overseas buyers

550 words
31 May 2014
The Courier-Mail
COUMAI
HomeQLDRE
58
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Global investment in Queensland residential property is in the spotlight due to a government inquiry,
with many developers making sales into foreign markets.

IF ONLY we had a yuan for every time we’ve been asked this lately: “Do you have buyers flying in
from China who might want this property?” The government started a public discussion on the topic
with its inquiry into Australia’s foreign investment policy as it applies to residential real estate.

And market chatter offers great promise of uneducated foreign buyers touching down at Eagle Farm
with a suitcase brimming with cash. Those of you selling a property see an opportunity to achieve a
premium, while those wanting to buy fear a cashed-up competitor may drive up prices.

So here is one view on what’s really happening with foreign buyers in the majority of Queensland’s
real estate market: Very little. The reason is a simple one. Most of them cannot buy established or
second-hand residential real estate in Australia.
Under rules administered by the Foreign Investment Review Board, non-Aussies may only purchase
brand new property if they have one of a limited category of visas, or permanent residency.
It is the government’s policy that foreign investment in residential real estate should increase
Australia’s housing stock. That is, the policy seeks to channel foreign investment in the housing
sector into activity that directly increases the supply of new housing (such as new developments of
house and land, home units and townhouses) and brings benefits to the local building industry and its
suppliers.

Queensland is attractive to foreign buyers and the 2012-2013 stats show for proposed investment in
residential real estate, by value, we had 11 per cent of all approvals.
The three largest source countries by value are China, Canada and the USA, accounting for 11.4 per
cent, 9.5 per cent and 8.5 per cent respectively of all approvals.
Clearly, property developers are making sales into foreign markets. That’s not a new distribution
channel for off-plan property sales and tenants may want to thank them for helping add new stock.
According to the Real Estate Institute of Australia (REIA), the number of investment properties held
by non-residents, while increasing marginally over the six years to 2011-12, has been about an
average of 72,000 properties.

The REIA argues the level of foreign investment as a proportion of the value of dwelling stock … is
still at a level where the ability of foreign investors to influence the market is negligible – in
Queensland it was 0.24 per cent.
Many parts of our state are very multicultural property marketplaces, and we have a lot of clients and
customers born and raised in China, Canada and the USA – along with hundreds of other nations –
but now making their home here.

Page242of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.We’ll leave it others to debate the pros and cons of foreign investment and whether the current laws
should change. Like the Italian and Greek immigrants of past generations, who made a solid mark on
Queensland property demand, another generation of new Aussies is showing longer-term locals the
benefits of real estate investment.
Naturally, as real estate agents, we love them for that.REIQ chairman Rob Honeycombe

irreal : Residential Real Estate | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icre : Real Estate/Construction |
ireest : Real Estate
ereal : Real Estate Markets | greest : Real Estate/Property | c312 : External Markets | c31 : Marketing
| ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News |
gcat : Political/General News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry
News Filter
austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document COUMAI0020140530ea5v00059

IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page243of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.