Q1 2015 Singapore Telecommunications Ltd Earnings Call - Final

HD Q1 2015 Singapore Telecommunications Ltd Earnings Call - Final
WC 9,913 words
PD 13 August 2014
SN CQ FD Disclosure
SC FNDW
LA English
CY © 2014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.
LP

Presentation

TD

SIN YANG FONG, VP GROUP IR & COMMUNICATIONS, SINGAPORE TELECOMMUNICATIONS
LIMITED : A warm welcome to all investors and analysts. You're listening to SingTel 's earnings conference
call for the first quarter ended June 30, 2014. My name is Sin Yang Fong and let me introduce
management on the call. Ms. Chua Sock Koong , Group CEO; Mr. Allen Lew , CEO of Group Digital Life;
Mr.Bill Chang, CEO of Group Enterprise; Mr. Paul O'Sullivan , CEO of Group Consumer; Ms. Jeann Low ,
Group CFO. They are also assisted by other members of the management team from Australia and
Singapore. Before we starting taking questions, I would like to invite Sock Koong to share some highlights
from this set of results.

CHUA SOCK KOONG, GROUP CEO, SINGAPORE TELECOMMUNICATIONS LIMITED : Thanks, Yang
Fong, and very good morning to all of you. We announced our results for the first Q ended June 30 this
morning so let me just share some highlights. The Group delivered very resilient operating performance.
Earnings were however impacted by currency movements, investments to support business transformation,
and also some significant exceptional items. Revenue and EBITDA in constant currency was stable with
continued momentum in Singapore while Australia results were affected by lower fixed revenue and
equipment sales. Group Consumer EBITDA growth was offset by lower Group Enterprise EBITDA and
share of pre-tax profits from the regional mobile associates grew very strongly on the back of strong Airtel
results and very robust base of growth across the associates.

Had regional currencies remained stable, underlying net profit would have increased 5% and net profit on
constant currency declined 12% on three key items. A one-off gain of SGD150 million on the dilution of
stake in Airtel with the same quarter last year; staff restructuring costs in Australia of AUD34 million, I
think that translates to about SGD27 million; and the Group share of Airtel's exceptional losses for various
disputes and provisions. Free cash flow increased by 33% on strong cash flow from both Singapore and
Australia. And on the FX movements, I will just highlight that during on the year-on-year basis the
Indonesian rupiah actually depreciated by more than 18% and of course the A dollar depreciated by about
5.4%. However, on a sequential quarter basis, currency movement has stabilized.

So maybe I'll stop there and we'll be happy to take Q&A.

SIN YANG FONG: Thank you, Sock Koong. We will now invite questions from participants. Our operator
will now assist you to put through your questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Luis Hilado, HSBC .

LUIS HILADO, ANALYST, HSBC SECURITIES (SINGAPORE) PTE LTD.: Congrats on the results. I have
three questions, all on the Singapore mobile business. The first question was regarding ARPUs. We've
seen that blended ARPUs continued to be flat QonQ. This quarter you launched your new WiFi bundled
plans that could help that. But just wondering given the first year or so of the WiFi unlimited, would that help
also cap your upside in the short to medium term? Second question is we've seen that fixed broadband
subs have continued to grow quite healthily, but wondering if you can give us insight on what's happening
with ARPUs or were there any impact from the new entrants and upstarts that have got into the fiber
broadband business? And last question is there has been headlines in the past about a potential fourth
entrant to the mobile sector, if we could get any insights from what you think how the entrant would be
accommodated, whether there would be any concessions given to it or whether it will have to be a true
startup?

Page327of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CHUA SOCK KOONG: Let me take this last question on your question on the fourth player in Singapore. I
think I believe clearly consistently we were prepared to meet a fourth mobile player. I think each time when
they do a spectrum auction, they would always first invite players to set up the mobile business in
Singapore or mobile network. I think so far there has been no success. I think they are now looking at it.
The recent consultation phases seem to indicate the use of more IT promotion of MVNO, how encouraging
the MVNO platform you will take. I don't think that there's a lot of clarity at this stage so I'm not going to
speculate whether they are going to set aside spectrum that is where you get preferential treatment if you
do MVNO et cetera.

I think that will be purely speculative, I wouldn't go there at this stage. But I think what I would like to
emphasize that SingTel through its operations both in Singapore and Australia and also the regional
markets have significant experience dealing with new entrants into a highly competitive market. And I think
we will be able to bring some of our learnings to bear if a fourth entrant, whether in the form of network
operator or a MVNO is to operate in Singapore. With that, I'm going to pass over to Moon to talk about the
ARPU trends and to talk about the fiber broadband market in Singapore.

KUAN MOON YUEN , CEO CONSUMER SINGAPORE, SINGAPORE TELECOMMUNICATIONS LIMITED
: Thank you, Sock Koong. Luis, this is Moon Yuen from SingTel Singapore. First of all, I think the ARPU, if
you look at the year-on-year decline, ARPU reported a 4% decline on postpaid mobile ARPU from last
year. Half of the decline, 2% actually comes from the dilution of mobile broadband as well as mobile share
plan. So as you are aware that we have introduced mobile sharing plans where we offer an extra SIM card
for existing customers to put into their tablets and additional devices. The ARPU for such plans is only
SGD10 a month and comparing this with the traditional smartphone plans of SGD40, SGD50, SGD60, you
see that there's a dilution effect. So, half of the decline of ARPU arise from this dilution effect.

The other 2% decline actually comes from two other factors. Firstly, comes from the reduction in
interconnect charges for SMS that we charge M1 and StarHub for sending SMSes to them. But of course
correspondingly, we also pay less from our cost side figures a reduction in SMS from our customers sent to
them as well. And the last part on the decline in ARPU year-on-year is also due to the decline in outbound
roaming traffic on voice when our customers go overseas to roam and because they are switching to data
as well. So, the combination of this effect actually brought down ARPU on a year-on-year basis. Maybe I'll
move on to the second question on the fixed broadband.

You see that the industry as a whole is actually being deprived in terms of the overall revenue for fixed
broadband and this is not just SingTel , but across the board. If you look at all the established players and
new players, I think the overall revenue pool for the fixed broadband has been on the decline for the last
few quarters. This is primarily due to more new players all coming into the market building up their own
opco and building up a lot of new capacity and trying to loop the network by giving huge discounting and
giving promotional prices. And for all of us, especially for SingTel , who have got existing customer base of
ADSL and fiber; we do want to ensure that we maintain certain market share in the market and therefore
we also participate in some of these promotional activities.

So we continue to see some price pressure on the fixed broadband, but at the same time, we are also
seeing some easing of pricing from the smaller players because I think that the model that is going on may
not be sustainable because there is too much of a heavy discounting. They only give them the initial crop of
new customers, exceeding certain scale they will have to invest again to build a bigger network and that will
require more CapEx. So, I think it is really a question of whether the market is sustainable if you continue to
give huge discounts at the retail level.

LUIS HILADO: Thanks, Moon. Thanks, Sock Koong. Very clear.

OPERATOR: Peter Milliken, Deutsche Bank .

PETER MILLIKEN, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK AG : First question is in Singapore following on from
what Luis was just asking about the ARPU there. Now if I track postpaid ARPU, it has been trending down
for about the last four years from a peak of SGD70 down to SGD52. This quarter it actually ticked up a little
bit. Do you think that that can be held at that level or will the increased number of people with multiple SIM
cards continue to erode that? And then second one is at Optus, we saw EBITDA fall sequentially
quarter-on-quarter from SGD657 million to SGD597 million so obviously about 40% of that was from the
restructuring cost. But given that acquisition costs also fell, I'm a bit surprised that the EBITDA was down
that much. Is there something I'm missing?

CHUA SOCK KOONG: Yes, Moon?

KUAN MOON YUEN : Maybe let me just give a bit more light on the ARPU and how we look at the
business. Firstly, I think when the dilution comes from the multi-SIM and the mobile share dilution effect, we
are less concerned because while ARPU from this new set of customers were coming on slower than

Page328of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.existing, we also have a lower cost of acquisition because we do not subsidize on devices for this multi
share and data SIM. So, it is still value accretive and that's why we are tracking the revenue growth. Of
course on the other hand, if you look at sequential quarter ARPU sort of flattening out and in fact improve of
SGD1, this is really due to seasonality. Our roaming quarter for April to June is higher than January to
March on a seasonality. So, you see this as more of a seasonal change as opposed to any change in the
usage mix of a customer.

PAUL O'SULLIVAN , CEO GROUP CONSUMER, SINGAPORE TELECOMMUNICATIONS LIMITED : It's
Paul here with Murray in Sydney. So Peter, I think we pointed, to begin with, to the fact that we're 4.5% up
year-on-year in terms of absolute EBITDA. So, our view would be that the key driver of the QonQ that
you're seeing is the seasonality effect. Not sure what else there is that maybe made you query the EBITDA
performance. But from my point of view actually, we'd be pointing to the fact that certainly from the
consumer business this quarter, you're seeing in the mobile business a significant stabilization in revenues.
Our outgoing mobile revenue was actually stable for the first time in quite some time. All of our declines in
mobile come from either mobile termination rates or equipment sales. And as I said, we pulled through
strength in the EBITDA percentage of 2.5% and also if you look at the percentage margin, it's up
year-on-year as well, 31.1% this year versus 28.9% last year. So, I would expect that anybody looking at
the numbers will hopefully see that there's actually some strength in the underlying performance of the
business and you're starting to see mobile revenue stabilize and that's a very good platform for us as we
now look to raise our voice above the line in the market and as we drive our new marketing campaigns,
which only began in the last two weeks of the quarter.

PETER MILLIKEN: Okay. Very good. So, the MyPlan isn't causing any noticeable pressure as people
transition?

PAUL O'SULLIVAN : You're talking about the launch we did last year, Peter, or the one we just launched in
June this year?

PETER MILLIKEN: The one you did last year in July.

PAUL O'SULLIVAN : In fact if you have a look at it actually, what we're seeing is pretty good data
utilization. So if you look at the MD&A, you can see that 41% of the base now are on tier data plan, 33%
are coming through quarterly with some form of breakage; but that's a soft break in the case of Optus. It's
AUD10 per gig if you need it and if you don't, you just revert back. Telling us really that people feel quite
safe browsing and that there is not be rationing effect which we were seeing prior to the launch of My Plan.
Likewise in terms of MyPlan Plus, it was launched in the last two weeks of the quarter and we've seen very
encouraging signs and uptake on that.

PETER MILLIKEN: Brilliant. Thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Sachin Mittal, DBS.

SACHIN MITTAL, ANALYST, DBS VICKERS. SINGAPORE: The first one is on the Enterprise business,
which actually saw 7% EBITDA decline and dragging the Group EBITDA by 3%. Now looking at your
guidance, you are guiding for slight growth in Group EBITDA. So I'm wondering what does it mean for the
Enterprise business given that it's facing a structural decline due to pricing pressure? So should we expect
the decline should be lower, should it stabilize and what are the key drivers here? With the kind of 7%
decline, it's a bit concerning for us. And is it the NetLink income or some new projects, what can actually
slow the decline here so that you can meet your guidance for low-single-digit Group EBITDA growth?
That's my question number one. Question number two is that you recently launched a bundled plan, which
actually are offered in countries like South Korea and Hong Kong; however, they are offered free of cost.
So what I'm wondering is, is there a difference in the way that you are offering these bundled services
versus other operators that there's a separate or slightly higher charge for that? If you could explain that, it
would be very useful. Thank you.

CHUA SOCK KOONG: Let Bill take the Enterprise question and then maybe Moon can explain why WiFi
service is a different service that what you see in Korea.

BILL CHANG , CEO GROUP ENTERPRISE, SINGAPORE TELECOMMUNICATIONS LIMITED : Thanks,
Sock Koong. On the Enterprise side, what we're seeing is a sort of intense competition in the core carriage
business and primarily in the domestic prime MVN and to protect our market share, we basically are gliding
some of our prices down to maintain that. So our market shares both domestically and internationally, we
have maintained our leadership positions. And the other key driver to this EBITDA is actually a large
transition project for the public sector and it's a huge project that we have and we are doing the
transitioning now. And the project because of the scale of it and the margins and due to the competition,
the margins are lower compared to what was the traditional IT business margins, but this would give uplift
in the revenues as we have seen in the strong IT services pickup. There were some one-off items from last

Page329of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.year due to one of our cable stocks failed and also in some of the traffic items, but those were largely the
third factor. The two bigger factors were what I described, MVN and the IT services. We do not give
guidance on sort of an overall. We give guidance on ICT services business. At the moment with our
trajectory, the guidance for revenues are still on track for the revenue projections.

JEANN LOW , GROUP CFO, SINGAPORE TELECOMMUNICATIONS LIMITED : Sachin, this is Jeann.
One, we only give guidance for the core business, the core EBITDA, and we have not given fully for
Enterprise nor Consumer. I think on your question about some of the margins impacted by MVN and do we
see it in NetLink. I think if you look at our share of income from NetLink, which of course includes OpenNet,
I think we have seen some growth there. The share of net profit from NetLink for the quarter is about SGD8
million. So obviously if you alleviate that and as the penetration go up and (inaudible).
SACHIN MITTAL: Just to follow-up on that, I'm not looking for guidance, but I'm looking for the drivers in
this business because this is a very sharp decline. So with this kind of decline, it's difficult to meet the
guidance, that's why I am asking for the drivers rather than the guidance for Enterprise.

JEANN LOW : We have affirmed our guidance for the Group so there is no change to our guidance.

KUAN MOON YUEN : Sachin, this is Moon here. In regards to the WiFi service offers in Korea, I would say
different countries offer bundled WiFi for different reasons. In some countries they offer WiFi purely as a
offload to their 4G LTE network because in some of the countries maybe they are offering unlimited 4G
data and putting in WiFi as a possible maybe scheme that they do to actually remove the heavy loading on
their 4G network. Whereas for SingTel , we offer our WiFi for a totally different reason. First of all, we are
trying to offer the WiFi to ensure that we give our customers more data, that's first thing, as opposed to just
purely using 4G data. Secondly, we offer it in a way that is managed network where the quality of the WiFi
is different from the free public WiFi that you see in Singapore. And again in Singapore, you can also find
quite a few options for free public WiFi that's being offered in the market. So the WiFi that we offer is really
of a different grade as a managed WiFi service and therefore we look at it more similar to the type of 4G
data that we are offering. So, it is for a totally different reason and it is more for managing the experience of
our customers.

SACHIN MITTAL: Okay, I got it. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Roshan Raj, Merrill Lynch .

ROSHAN RAJ, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH : First on Optus Satellite, revenue has been trending down
for a few quarters now, I'm just trying to understand what's really leading to this and how should one look at
the outlook for this segment. The second question is on your associate Telkomsel. Just a big picture level,
how do you think or how do you guide them in terms of really investing in the network? To what extent
should they be ahead of the market and when should they actually start moderating the investment? How
do you take that call? Some color there, that will be very useful? Thank you.

CHUA SOCK KOONG: Paul, you want to do the satellite question. And then I will get Moon to talk about
Telkomsel.

PAUL O'SULLIVAN : So, the main influence you're seeing in the Satellite numbers is that we had a contract
with the NBN to help provide satellite broadband services to customers mainly in regional areas. Most of
the revenue that has been reduced was for us providing CPE to customers and it was effectively a
pass-through so you don't see a big impact on our profitability, but you do see an impact on the revenue
line. In terms of guidance, we don't guide Satellite moving forward; but I think most people would know that
we have a very strong position in the market. We effectively dominate the space of media and broadcast
and we see that as a very strong business. I'll pass back to Singapore for the question on Telkomsel.

KUAN MOON YUEN : This is Moon here. For Indonesia Telkomsel, if you look at the history of how the
investment network, primarily you built the network in different parts of Indonesia and you expect the
customers to come on. That was the traditional model where they were rolling out 2G. But in the last one or
two years, you look at Telkomsel investment is primarily focusing on investing in 3G networks to capture
the data market and the growth in data. So if you look at last year or the past one year of CapEx
investment, 75% of their CapEx are primarily driven on 3G. And the way Telkomsel does it is really to look
at which area or which region have got high data adoption rate. So they look at historical usage of the 2G
and 3G network and they see that in this area have got higher demand of data network, they will then
double down the investment in that area and at the same time obviously, they will perhaps ensure that
there are enough devices that are 3G enabled in these regions to support the growth of data. So, it is a
disciplined approach to look at where this demand for data and investing in the network to meet the
demand there.

ROSHAN RAJ: Thanks. If I may just follow-up on that. Given their market position in terms of coverage and
capacity, are they already in a strong position to really start looking at moderating investments or do you

Page330of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.think there is still ample room to invest to support potential growth in the market? What's the trend one can
expect?

KUAN MOON YUEN : I think if you look in general, Telkomsel has provided CapEx guidance for their
Group so I will not repeat that. Telkomsel, I think if you look at Indonesia as a whole, the data penetration is
still very low. I think it's flat [than] 50% or close to 50% so it is still growing and there is still a lot of potential
growth. I think it is a question of pace and timing because you don't want to invest too fast ahead where the
devices are not ready and the affordability of the consumers are not ready. So it is really about pacing the
investment, but generally speaking if you look at the market, it is definitely not penetrated yet. There's still
more than 50% of the market not data penetrated yet.

ROSHAN RAJ: Okay. Thanks, Moon. Just going back to Paul's response. So should we expect the Satellite
revenue to sort of stabilize at current levels or how should one look at it or you would not be able to share
that guidance?

PAUL O'SULLIVAN : We don't guide specifically so I'd love to answer the question, but I don't want to land
myself in trouble with a selected guidance. So unfortunately we can't comment at the product level, but I
just reinforce my comments that we have a very strong business.

ROSHAN RAJ: All right. Thank you, Paul.

OPERATOR: Sachin Gupta, Nomura Securities .

SACHIN GUPTA, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES : Firstly for Paul. In Australian business, obviously
costs are fine, but revenues are still a struggle. Are you reasonably confident that with the new pricing
plans, we should be able to see this turnaround? That's one. Secondly for Moon. If you look at the pay-TV
business in Singapore, the sub addition or the sub numbers were flat for mio, we had 19,000
cross-carriage. Is that a concern or does that actually make you rethink the content strategy given this
impact? And I guess lastly as well on this new WiFi plans, I'm sure every market is different, but obviously
the customer perception is that WiFi is free and WiFi is unlimited. What sort of reaction do you expect when
you start charging for these services and you start capping WiFi?

PAUL O'SULLIVAN : Sachin, this is Paul here on question one. I might guide you through the section of the
MD&A, look at the Australia Group Consumer and let me give the exact page to you because I think it's
worthwhile trying to highlight the specific numbers that get us there. So that would be page 26. So if you
have a look at that, if you look at second tab of the page, you'll see our mobile revenues and if you look at
mobile service revenue, you can see it's down 0.8%, of which outgoing is down 0.1%. There are two key
points there. First one is total mobile service revenue if I look two quarters ago was declining minus 4%,
last quarter was minus 2%, this quarter is minus 0.8%. So, you're seeing the number start to stabilize. And
if you look at outgoing, it was two quarters ago minus 3%, last quarter minus 7%, this quarter minus 0.1%,
almost flat. So the first thing I'd point you to is you're starting to see us stabilize the revenues.

We did say quite clearly over the last two years that we were voluntarily getting rid of what we thought was
unsustainable revenues like the AUD100 per gig that the industry was charging for anybody going over
their data allowance or some of the hidden fees. So we had been quite open about saying that we were
going to walk away from those and now what you're seeing is we're starting to stabilize the business and to
pull it through, which I think is a positive thing. So, that's the first thing I would very much point to in terms of
where mobile's at today. And the second thing I'd point out is that if you do look at the decline in mobile
service revenues of 0.8%, all of the decline which is around about AUD24 million, AUD25 million there, all
of the decline is in either equipment sales or mobile termination rates. Now, neither of those go through to
EBITDA.

Our mobile terminations are actually quite balanced on traffic these days and equipment as you know is
simply us providing equipment to customers with no markup of any significance on it. So again, I'd point out
the fact that actually what you're seeing is the underlying mobile numbers are now starting to be quite
resilient. Moving forward, many outside Australia will not have seen our advertising, but Optus has been
probably the most visible it's been in two to three years above the line in the last quarter. Equally
importantly, we've been very active on social media, we'd be quite innovative and very much behaving in
an un-carrier way not the way that we go to market and standing out from the crowd. That only began in the
last two weeks of the quarter, but the early signs of that campaign are quite encouraging. So yes, as we're
moving forward, I do believe we'll be able to bring the mobile business back to growth. But clearly I don't
want to guide the market in any specific sense and we'll just let our results speak for themselves over the
next 12 months.

KUAN MOON YUEN : Sachin, this is Moon here. I think the first question on pay-TV. First of all, last quarter
was a quarter that we focused a lot on leveraging on World Cup so a lot of our sales and marketing effort
was really trying to get our customers, especially BPL customers, to recontract and to sign up for World

Page331of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Cup to give us the leverage of using World Cup. So, we were less focused last quarter on signing up new
customers. And the 19,000 cross-carriage was primarily for World Cup only, that's why we call it out
separately. And also traditionally if you look at our Q1 quarter, it's always been a low season for
acquisition because it is the end of BPL season as well. So combining the two factors, you see that
holding a flat QonQ subscriber base on pay-TV is actually a good outcome for us.

And more importantly, we actually focus on selling more content to our existing base and that's why you
can see a good improvement in ARPU even without the World Cup revenue contribution. So, it jumped up
to SGD53 million on revenue on pay-TV. On your second question on WiFi. First of all, let me clarify that
the WiFi service that we provide is actually a seamless WiFi service for all our mobile customers we find on
the combo plan. What it means is that the customers do not need to have any lock-in credentials or lock-in
password. So as long as the phone is switched on to WiFi enabler, once it goes into the hotspot, the phone
automatically switches over to this WiFi service that we have configured.

And secondly, this WiFi service is actually a managed WiFi where we are actually dimensioning the
network to ensure that we give a much better speed and better throughput experience for our customers
from the traditional using the free public WiFi. We projected that the speeds will be typically between 4 meg
to 10 meg which is about five times faster than the free public WiFi. So combining the seamlessness and
the higher quality of WiFi, we are putting this much more closer to the experience of mobile data
experience and therefore, we are creating a new category of WiFi data allowance in our new combo plans
package.

OPERATOR: Just to inform, Sachin's line has dropped from the call. Janice Chong, CLSA.

JANICE CHONG, ANALYST, CLSA: First of all for Singapore. You mentioned about the WiFi data
allowance, I just wanted to understand whether in the long term will these WiFi access actually cannibalize
into your potential data revenues. Basically you are actually allowing consumers to access unlimited WiFi
whereby they could actually upgrade to a higher plan later on if their data consumption increases. That's
question one for Singapore. Secondly, your prepaid subscribers have not been affected by the SIM card
restriction. Unlike your two other competitors who have actually shown a decline in prepaid subs, you have
not. Could you elaborate on that?

And third question on Singapore, I just wanted to clarify whether wholesale pricing for mobile, is that
regulated in Singapore? On Optus, I just wanted to get a better sense of competition in the Australian
mobile landscape. Vodafone has recently come up to say that they will be refarming its existing 15
megahertz. Just wondering whether do you see EBITDA growth sustainable by this year and also financial
year 2016 or do you expect the next two years probably would be an investment year for you. That's all for
now. Thank you.

KUAN MOON YUEN : Moon here. Let me take the WiFi question again. I think first of all, there are many
free public WiFi service available in Singapore. So I think the key question is if we do not build a quality
WiFi product as seamless, there will be always be substitution itself. I think by introducing our own WiFi, we
have the ability to take some of the traffic back on to our managed network to provide a consistent service.
And the initial one year of free unlimited WiFi that is bundled with our premium WiFi service is really more
as a rollout phase. As we built up all the hotspots in Singapore to reach 1,000 points of hotspots, we felt
that it was not good to start metering so early when there are fewer hotspots.

So by that time we will see really more nationwide coverage of 1,000 hotspots, that's the time that we will
start to charge to meter the WiFi 2 gigs of data for everyone. We see this WiFi as completing our 4G
networks to provide the seamless experience. We also expect consumers to continue to use their mobile
phone and data growth will continue to increase. So while it may take away some traffic initially, but in the
longer run, the growth will be able to sustain the loading on both networks. The second question on
prepaid, I believe is related to the prepaid registration of 10 SIM cards to three SIM cards. We are equally
impacted in terms of the regulation. So, our customers who have more than three SIM cards definitely
cannot register for a fourth one.

I think I can't comment on our competitors what's the impact. Of course our focus is really to then look at
the quality of our customers to encourage them to do more top-ups, which we are seeing, instead of buying
new SIM cards. Our focus has always been getting our customers not to throw away SIMs, but to reuse
their existing SIMs by managing our promotional offers to make sure that we do not give a much better
offer for new customers and existing customers. So we encourage our customers to top-up more, perhaps
that's the reason why we are less impacted in the sense as compared to the other two. On your third
question on wholesale mobile, wholesale mobile which are actually not regulated is competitive. We can
actually offer and set our own pricing for wholesale prices.

PAUL O'SULLIVAN : So Moon, I might pick up the question on Australia, which was a very broad ranging
question, but I'll try and pick up what I think were three big themes in it. First of all on network, to just give

Page332of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.you some context about network. This is actually quite an exciting time for Optus in terms of network build
so we have acquired 700 megahertz frequencies in the recent auction, which become available to us on the
January 1, which is only about four months away. We also have 2600 spectrum and we also have a
massive amount of 2300 spectrum in the metro areas, which we acquired two years ago. We are
pre-building our sites. There's a major rollout underway with a view to getting that frequency deployed and
it will be used for 4G. Our publicly stated goal is to have 90% coverage of subscribers in 4G by April on a
national basis. So, that's a very strong story.

And certainly we've heard our competitors' network plans, I'll remind you as well of course that they have a
smaller footprint than we have in terms of national coverage. Moving forward in terms of the market and its
competitive dynamics, it's been interesting to watch the market over the last few months. We've seen that
carriers in general have shifted the focus of competition less on handset and now more on data allowances
and certainly we've seen Vodafone go very much aggressive on data allowances. But if I move forward and
talk about Optus and where we're going, I can remark that if I look at this directly whenever Optus
demonstrates peer differentiation on value, service, and provides a strong and competitive network; it does
very well. And if you look at what we're currently executing, I've described our network sales and our
network rollout.
On net promoter score, we lead the three major carriers by a significant amount on net promoter score and
that's independently gathered data. And if you look at our value, we have launched the first-ever data
sharing plans that allow you to share your data allowance on a mobile across all your devices with no extra
monthly charge. And in prepaid in the last week, we are the only carrier in the market with daily plans, you
only pay for the days you use. We've gone right back to our challenger roots and this is the territory which
Optus always does well. I've got no doubt the market will be very competition ongoing, it always has been,
but I also would remark that I think Optus is well placed to face that competition and we'll certainly continue
to focus very heavily on customer experience and value differentiation building on a strong network.
JANICE CHONG: Okay. Thank you. I just got one more question, it's more on the PBTL. I'm just wondering
what is SingTel 's plans on this associate and whether you have plans perhaps in the future or in the near
term to actually divest?

MARK CHONG , CEO INTERNATIONAL, SINGAPORE TELECOMMUNICATIONS LIMITED : This is Mark.
On PBTL, we are managing it for cash so essentially that's it.

JANICE CHONG: When you say that managing it for cash, you're saying that basically it's free cash flow
positive?

MARK CHONG : It's currently I think on a sustainable basis based on the funds that is obtained through
various loans and [cash].

CHUA SOCK KOONG: I think in Bangladesh, we do have a presence in mobile GSM presence in
(inaudible). So with PBTL, we are not committed to any further investment so we are basically letting the
partners run it, but making sure that the company is just managed for cash. There's no additional cash
investment required from outside.

JANICE CHONG: Okay. And if there is opportunity to diverse, suppose that you will be happy to look into
that?

CHUA SOCK KOONG: I think we are open to divestment opportunities.

SIN YANG FONG: Janice, does that answer your question? Do you have further questions?

JANICE CHONG: No, that's all. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Arthur Pineda, Citigroup .

ARTHUR PINEDA, ANALYST, CITIGROUP : Firstly, can I get some color in terms of the Digital Life
operating losses as it seems to have narrowed notably quarter-on-quarter? There seems to be a significant
reduction in the cost base and revenues are slightly down as well QonQ. Is this really a seasonal factor or
is this linked to the reduction in spending? Second question I had is with regard to Singapore mobile.
You've obviously been very active in the launch of all the new plans particularly on the WiFi bundling.
These are slightly higher on the base price, but more generous of course on the minutes in data allocation.
But based on the usage patterns that you've seen internally versus the plan allocations, do you see this as
potentially ARPU accretive or neutral based on the more generous bundles? Last question I have is with
regard to strategic investments. We've obviously seen the Chinese operators being more active across this
space. I'm wondering what SingTel 's commitment is for the existing assets. You've mentioned PBTL that
you may be open to that. Is the door open for the other assets as well? Thank you.

Page333of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CHUA SOCK KOONG: I think we'll talk about Singapore where it is not (inaudible). We are open to that
obviously, all those got to be on the right terms. Maybe I'll get Allen to talk about Digital Life and then throw
it back to Moon to talk about mobile in Singapore.

ALLEN LEW , CEO GROUP DIGITAL LIFE, SINGAPORE TELECOMMUNICATIONS LIMITED : About the
Digital Life, your question on the revenue QonQ is primarily because of seasonal effects. I think typically
our Q1 of our fiscal year for mobile advertising is little bit lower than the previous quarter so I think that
reflects customer spending. I think this Q also we had a little bit of deferred spending from European
advertisers in particular deferring their ad dollars spend to the second half of the year and that's why we
think it will start to come back a bit more. I think more importantly when you look at our mobile advertising
business, if you look at the growth in revenue per quarter from SGD21 million to SGD35 million, [which is]
about 80% growth.

If you benchmark to some of the other independent advertising platforms out there in the mobile space,
Rocket Fuel for example is growing at about 70% to 75%, Millennial Media which is very much US focused
also a SingTelcompany without SingTel technologies differentiator that we have has been growing about
45%, 50%. So, the relative performance of MOB in that market is very important. In terms of the EBITDA, I
think there are some one-off impacts of the EBITDA primarily due to the acquisition costs associated with
the two acquisitions that we've made that we've basically put into our operating expenses for the year. I
think the rest reflects a business that we're building up to scale.

KUAN MOON YUEN : Moon here. Let me just maybe explain a bit on the thinking behind the new combo
plan package that we've just launched yesterday. First of all, I think the SGD3 increase in some of the
plans, not all the plans, actually primarily because we are giving more value to the customer. We are giving
more value on calls, we are giving more value on SMS, we are also introducing a WiFi data bundled plan.
So, that's the only reason why it's a higher base price for that. And the question of giving more voice and
then taking away the excess usage of voice is really a question of trend. If you look at the last one or two
years, we are seeing a similar trend of how SMS have trended down when data is up. So, we are seeing a
similar pattern on usage where customers are using lesser voice and also moving towards more data. So
actually by repackaging, we are arresting this downward decline of voice and actually upward increase in
data. So obviously, we do see that this new packaging allow us to better fit the changing usage behavior
and obviously we wanted to be value accretive in the overall packaging of our price lines.

ARTHUR PINEDA: I guess if I put it in a different way. When we look at it from a revenue perspective,
should we expect this kind of strategy to actually improve your revenues going forward or is it more neutral
because people who used to pay more for voice because of them budgeting their plans in voice more for
data because of them budgeting their caps in data, you don't collect more from that. So that SGD3
increment, is that to be viewed as an increase in ARPU down the road?

KUAN MOON YUEN : Well, I guess consumers will have options as we introduce many different plans
including earlier on, two months ago we introduced Easy Mobile. We are really creating plans that fit
different segments of the market. The combo plan definitely has advantage of having a higher assured
monthly fee and perhaps lower excess usage, but we believe that the continuous growth on data
consumption will allow us to have a breakthrough in data usage in terms of on a [personal] basis. And if you
look at the last few quarters, we have actually consistently grown the number of customers who have
exceeded their data package; last quarter it was 16%, this quarter it's 18%. So we believe the data excess
usage will continue to grow driven by better handsets, faster network, and more applications of video. So,
that will continue and that will definitely overtake the usage on voice access usage. So raising the
subscription fee will actually protect certain level of revenue for us in the switching behavior of consumers.

ARTHUR PINEDA: Got it. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Abhijit Attavar, Jefferies.
ABHIJIT ATTAVAR, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: I just wanted to refocus on the Optus EBITDA
and in particular, the sequential almost 10% decline we have seen in the first quarter as compared to fourth
quarter last year. So if I look back, second quarter last year you had this big rationalization in selling and
administrative cost, also your staff cost because of the restructuring exercise you took and cut out your
third-party distribution cost and that kind of held through for about three quarters. But again this quarter I
see a jump in your selling and administrative cost and also interestingly your staff costs. So, I'm just trying
to understand are there any one-offs in this or is this a new trend going forward given that you're building
back some of your brand visibility in Australia. So, if I could just get some flavor on that.

MURRAY KING , CFO GROUP CONSUMER, SINGAPORE TELECOMMUNICATIONS LIMITED : It's
Murray King here from Optus. In respect to the EBITDA sequential movement, I'll probably refer you to
page 29 of the MD&A where we talk about Consumer Australia sequential performance. We clearly cite
there a slight growth in revenues, but the selling costs were higher quarter-on-quarter. This is somewhat a

Page334of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.reflection of seasonality because in Australia because the March quarter we have the January holiday
period and February (inaudible), we normally see a lot lower level of activity in the marketplace. So you've
historically seen our EBITDA higher in the fourth quarter versus quarter one. Your point about the staff
costs is correct. As we've moved to the owned and operated number of stores of around about 160-ish
shops, we are incurring those staff costs. But that's more than offset by lower commission cost in respect to
the previous franchise arrangement. So essentially, as Paul indicated earlier, it's a result of the seasonality
in the higher selling costs quarter-on-quarter.

PAUL O'SULLIVAN : Paul here. I think we'd reinforce that the cost discipline remains very strong at Optus
and it's the 4.5% expansion in EBITDA year-on-year. And the way management sees this challenge at the
moment is to build off that platform and to make sure we get some momentum back in the topline.

ABHIJIT ATTAVAR: Thank you. I just wanted to have another question on the Singapore Enterprise
EBITDA side where you have seen an 8% decline year-over-year on the EBITDA side. Clearly with more
NBN open access, there would be a lot more pricing pressure from your competitors. This is a really high
margin business for you. So if you've got a different market share, don't you see a lot more pricing pressure
in EBITDA declines and this is a business which contributes almost a third to your consolidated EBITDA.
So, how do you protect earnings of this business?

CHUA SOCK KOONG: Bill?

BILL CHANG : Thanks, Sock Koong. So if you look at that, the NBN is a key factor on that and where we
are seeing it is in terms of moving away from carriage and bundling more services on those carriage. And
in the SME segment, we do quite a fair bit of that, we do have a very strong hold in that in our fiber
broadband rollout. In fact we are leading the market in the space with a lot of access rollout to sort of
stronghold the [skews] there. Given some of the government's grants and all that they have launched over
the last few months announced for the Singapore to help SMEs, we're certainly taking advantage of that in
the fiber rollout adoption and our WiFi adoption for SME. So, definitely those are sort of opportunities that
we are pursuing to tap into that.

In the large enterprise, we are also rolling out similar strategies in terms of more services primarily in the
area around unified communications and collaboration and also cyber security being a very major focus.
And finally in the area of cloud, pushing greater; for example the G-Cloud, we're getting a lot of attraction
there and also the Enterprise Cloud for commercial accounts. So if you look at that, the transition of this is
going to require us to move much faster into that. The managed services portfolio you're seeing that is
picking up speed in the space given some of the strong contributions to Q1. So, we expect to continue to
do that and continue to drive the growth into the sector and also try and latch on to the infrastructure that
the managed services would need to ride on.

ABHIJIT ATTAVAR: And this seems an interesting strategy and I guess it will take time for the services on
top of the network to pick up. But in the interim, isn't there a big differential between your current pricing
and what would be the wholesale open access pricing and will your competitors not want to arbitrage this
down? So in the near term, do you foresee more pressures on the EBITDA from this business? I'm talking
about the next couple of quarters.

BILL CHANG : Next couple of quarters we will see some pressure, but again like I said, it's about the
portfolio management and trying to shoot that and not forgetting that you would see the pick on the MVN is
also going to represent value creation for us from an OpenNet standpoint. So that's what Jeann talked
about earlier, it's going to go to a part of the Group earnings as well. So for us as an operating arm, we're
definitely moving this so we probably see a couple of quarters of this and then after that, we expect to try
and uplift that. The other piece that we see there is some kind of a pickup also in the international front
where the US market seems to have good activity and that should also be something to uplift for us from
primarily US at the moment.

ABHIJIT ATTAVAR: Thank you. And can I just understand what exactly was the transition on this large
government ICT project that you had and how exactly is it affecting your EBITDAs?

BILL CHANG : The transition actually refers to the Singapore Government's what's called a Standard
Operating Environment, SOE project, for all the government infrastructure. So, we used to be a
subcontractor of that.

CHUA SOCK KOONG: I think basically we moved into a contract renewal phase and ultimately there is a
pricing reduction and that (inaudible).

BILL CHANG : And beyond the contracts, also from a subcontractor to a prime contractor now for this
contract in second phase.

ABHIJIT ATTAVAR: Understood. Thank you very much.

Page335of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.OPERATOR: Steven Liu, Standard Chartered .
STEVEN LIU, ANALYST, STANDARD CHARTERED EQUITY RESEARCH: First, maybe on the VoLTE.
Since you launched the service, what do you see the pickup in the customer for VoLTE? I mean what kind
of reception from the customers. Secondly, regarding your enterprise in Singapore. With now M1 has
launched the enterprises service and also StarHub expanding the network coverage and there is also some
[all-in] coverage. Do we see the pressure really coming up in the domestic enterprise markets? Thank you.
KUAN MOON YUEN : I'm going to answer the VoLTE question first. I think first of all, VoLTE is actually a
very new technology that has been introduced into the LTE network. There are very few handset devices
today that actually supports VoLTE. So the network is ready and we are progressively turning on VoLTE for
customers who come in with the handset that are enabled for VoLTE. So, it will take a while longer before
all devices introduced in the market are VoLTE enabled not just in Singapore, but it will also require the rest
of the world to catch up with this devices that are VoLTE enabled. So, it's actually very early days. I think
the numbers are actually very small today, but obviously for those who actually have it will be good to enjoy
the better quality and clarity of the VoLTE voice.

CHUA SOCK KOONG: The enterprise competition in Singapore.

BILL CHANG : The enterprise competition in Singapore, specifically we see this in two main sectors. One in
the telecom providers not so much as the players who are the domestic players, but also international
players because we serve a large part of MNCs. The other part is because of our IT services piece so we
do also compete with IT services companies like IBM and HP and to the likes of Accenture and also to the
Indian outsourcers. So, for both the global service providers and global IT services providers as well.

STEVEN LIU: Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Prem Jearajasingam, Macquarie.

PREM JEARAJASINGAM, ANALYST, MACQUARIE BANK LIMITED : Firstly, to what extent have we
already converted all our ADSL subscribers to fiber and is this the key drag on the ARPU side for your
broadband business? And secondly with regards to all our investments in LTE, could you share with us
what you see in terms of the ARPU uplift, the LTE versus 3G, and potentially how that changes your views
with regards to handset subsidies going forward? Do we see a need to increase subsidies going forward to
get more people onto LTE handsets or are we comfortable with things as they stand and there's room for
further declines in the handset subsidy lines? Thank you.

CHUA SOCK KOONG: Just to clarify when you're talking about LTE, you're referring to Singapore or
Australia?

PREM JEARAJASINGAM: Singapore first and to a lesser extent Australia as well.

CHUA SOCK KOONG: Maybe Moon, you can go first.

KUAN MOON YUEN : We actually disclosed in our MD&A the fiber base is actually now 347,000 customers
and the ADSL is 201,000, basically a much smaller number. So, actually last quarter I mentioned that we
crossed over more than 50% actually on fiber. I think we have progressed that even further now so almost
60% of our base are actually on fiber now. With respect to LTE, I think our long-term strategy is definitely to
migrate all our postpaid 3G customers into LTE. Firstly, because LTE is a much more efficient network to
carry data and with data growth and usage, you would expect our customers who are on the 4G network,
who have better opportunity to use more data because it's faster and it's of higher quality than the 3G
network in terms of data throughput and experience.

So over time if you look at the 18% of our customers who exceed their data usage as we reported in the tier
plan, majority of them obviously are on the 4G LTE network. Therefore you can anticipate that more
customers on 4G means more data usage and it's going to be good for the business. In terms of handset
subsidy, I think there are two ways of looking at how we migrate. Obviously if you look at our shops, our
own China selling phones and services together, more than 90% of the phones that we carry today are
actually 4G phones. So by natural attrition and customer change out, you will see that all our customers are
actually going to be on a 4G plan. And obviously the customers can still buy their own 3G phones in the
market, but then they will not be able to enjoy the better experience on a 4G network.

So, it is natural that more and more customers will move into 4G without us having to oversubsidize to
encourage the switch. And if you look at yesterday's new price plan, one of the reasons why we remove
away the LTE VAS charge is actually to encourage more 3G customers to move into a LTE plan because if
you slap on an additional add-on LTE charge, you are actually slowing down by creating more inertias for
customers to switch over into LTE. So by removing that and bundling it into the entire combo plan, we are
actually facilitating the migration faster and encouraging migration faster.

Page336of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PREM JEARAJASINGAM: Paul, on Australia?

PAUL O'SULLIVAN : I was just going to really just say not much extra to add other than a few local points,
which is just as we've discussed previously, there is definitely a larger uptake of data browsing on a 4G
device. For us, that's a combination of the work we've done on making it safe to browse, I described it
earlier with our new MyPlans. Also the fact that we've got data sharing, but also the device and the speed
of the network does drive that. You've seen that in Australia handset subsidies have been declining over
time and customers have been willing to pay more and despite that, we're still seeing very good take-up of
4G. We've got just under 2.5 million 4G customers on our network now. We also see a growing trend in
Australia of customers buying their own device and then doing a BYO plan because they like the flexibility
that it gives. So I would say that it certainly is in our interest to keep ceding 4G devices, however I don't
think it necessarily follows that that needs to drive an increase in subsidy and if anything, we may see some
relief longer term of the entry into the market of the low cost handset providers. But for now, I'd simply be
noting no major departure from trend is how we see it today.

PREM JEARAJASINGAM: Great. Thank you very much.

CHUA SOCK KOONG: Thank you, everybody. We've had a lot of interesting questions, but due to time
constrains, we are going to stop the call here. Well, call us if you have questions. We have your names, we
will contact you. So thank you very much again for calling in. Should you have further questions, please
don't hesitate to contact the IR team in Sydney or in Singapore. On behalf of everyone in SingTel , thank
you and goodbye.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this
web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other
forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon
current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those
stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more
specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and
believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the
assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results
contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF
THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE
AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR
INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO
WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE
COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE
BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND
THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER
DECISIONS.]

CO telas : Singapore Telecommunications Limited | tmasek : Temasek Holdings Pte Ltd
IN i7902 : Telecommunication Services
NS c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin :
C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter

RE singp : Singapore | usa : United States | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :

Australia/Oceania | namz : North America | seasiaz : Southeast Asia

PUB CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
AN Document FNDW000020140816ea8d00692

Page337of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.