Sunny Verghase Interview

HD
BY
Pip Courtney
WC 2,014 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

Sunny Verghase Interview

9 August 2014
Australian Broadcasting Corporation Transcripts
ABCTRS
English
(c) 2014 Australian Broadcasting Corporation

Sunny Verghese is CEO of Singaporean agribusiness giant Olam International.

PIP COURTNEY, PRESENTER: The CEO of one of the world's biggest agricultural commodity trading
companies is warning producers to get serious about climate change.

TD

Sunny Verghese from Olam International was in Australia this week to speak at a national cotton
conference and check on some of his company's operations.

In his address to a cotton growers' conference on the Gold Coast this week, he challenged producers and
processors to tackle environmental issues.

SUNNY VERGHESE, CEO, OLAM INTERNATIONAL: Even the hardest critics here who believe that this
whole... hullabaloo about climate change is an imagination of the tree huggers - and I'm not one, but I
must say that the evidence is overwhelming.

PIP COURTNEY: But Sunny Verghese is also passionate about developing Olam's agricultural assets in
Australia. Late this week he visited the factory near Mildura which processes Olam's almonds.

SUNNY VERGHESE: Almonds are in an up cycle now and therefore we are positive to almond prices in
the market. It is driven by two factors. One is, demand is quite robust. So demand is going at between
eight per cent and nine per cent. And supply, because of weather and other disruptions, is constrained, so
we expect a lower crop in the US than what was originally envisaged. As a result of that, we see firmer
almond prices. So almond prices today are at a fairly historical high.

PIP COURTNEY: As well as interests in wool and grain, Olam owns Queensland cotton. With 11 gins in
Queensland and New South Wales, it has the capacity to process more than one million bales of cotton a
year.

Much sought after for his views on the world's most-traded agricultural commodities, I caught up with Mr
Verghese at this week's Cotton Conference.

Sunny Verghese, welcome to Landline.

SUNNY VERGHESE: Thank you.

PIP COURTNEY: Olam operates in 65 countries. What makes Australia an attractive place to invest in?

SUNNY VERGHESE: From an agricultural production standpoint, we believe that Australia is the most
advanced among most agricultural producing countries. A good example is cotton - Australia yields an
average of 10.4 bales per hectare, is way ahead of most other countries, including the US.

So even though costs in Australia are high from a labour cost point of view and from an energy cost point
of view, you still, because of high productivity, have Australia as a cost-competitive producer of many of
these agricultural commodities and not just cotton - the supplies to the grains complex and the supplies to
almonds, two other sectors that we are involved in Australia. We believe that Australia has a true
comparative advantage to produce agricultural commodities like this cheaper and better than others.

Page83of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PIP COURTNEY: Your company's best known to our audience for almonds. You bought the Timbercorp
MIS scheme assets in Victoria and as a result of your investment, we're now the second-biggest almond
producer in the world. But you recently sold that operation for $200 million and you're leasing it back.
Why did you do that?

SUNNY VERGHESE: When you go upstream into plantations and farming, you have very high asset
intensity in terms of fixed capital investments and you need to first be able to acquire the land, develop
the land, grow the crop, take it to maturity, after which that asset becomes monetisable.

We did not invest in agriculture land because we see it as an investment asset class - that if you invest in
agricultural land there will be ag land inflation and that's the source of value. That was not the logic with
which we invested. We invested because we understood how to produce almonds or produce cotton or
produce other grains that we are involved in farming and we want to capture the production economics.
So we don't need to necessarily own the asset - so if you want the milk, you don't need to necessarily
own the cow.

But there is a point in which nobody's interested in the land because it's raw land. You got to first develop
it, you've got to bring it to maturity. Once it becomes a cashflow-generating asset, you can take out the
asset intensity, but still participate in your value creation logic, which is about capturing the production
economics. So we own the flows in the US - we own the trees and the flows. In Australia we own the flows
and we are interested in capturing that value, the production economics, which is why we have now sold
the plantation and leased it back for the remainder useful life of that orchard. We still will capture the
production economics, which is what we are after.

PIP COURTNEY: There's a lot of talk here about the negative impact that the huge stockpile of cotton in
China is having on the industry. Are you worried?
SUNNY VERGHESE: There is definitely worry, it's the biggest elephant in the room. China's stock is
equal into almost 50 per cent of annual world consumption - 12 million tonnes, 13 million tonnes of
stock. So how China will manage that is the key driver to future price direction in the cotton markets.

So I think all cotton-producing countries will be watching with some anxiety and definitely a lot of interest
as to how the Chinese government is going to play this out.

PIP COURTNEY: Really hot summer temperatures hit your cotton assets pretty hard. Are you a climate
change believer? And if so, are you worried about how it's going to impact on your Australian assets and
your other agricultural assets around the world?

SUNNY VERGHESE: Absolutely, because we are now invested in 11 agricommodities in terms of farming
them or growing them across 20 different countries, so we have a fairly proprietary view on the impact of
climate change in our upstream production and farming assets. And it is absolutely a reality that climate
change is going to significantly impact agriculture.

PIP COURTNEY: What's Olam doing to future-proof itself against climate change?

SUNNY VERGHESE: So firstly, we do footprinting of how much carbon dioxide emissions we generate,
how much biowaste we generate and how much water footprint we have. We have given a target that in
our tier one manufacturing and processing facilities, we will reduce water usage per tonne of product that
we supply by 10 per cent by 2015 and in our farms by 10 per cent by 2020. Similarly, we have mapped the
carbon dioxide emissions that we generate across all the commodities in each country. So we will report
every year how much carbon dioxide emission per tonne have we reduced compared to the hard targets
that we have set.
My view is that there's no point if I say I have generated half a billion dollars of after-tax earnings, but I
have depleted $200 million of natural capital from the environment. Because then I have to question
myself, what is point of all of this overwhelming effort if at the end of the day you've really depleted the
natural capital and therefore left a huge bill to pay for future generations?

So as I mentioned in my speech, if you see the episodes of extreme weather events in the last ten years,
which is in excess of 2,000 extreme weather events globally, compared to about 450-470 weather events
in the mid-'70s, you will understand what the impact of climate change is.

PIP COURTNEY: You talk about depleting your natural capital. And you talked in your speech about how
90 per cent of China's water is polluted. How is that going to affect their ability to feed themselves?
SUNNY VERGHESE: That's right - for China, one of the biggest development challenges is environment
and pollution. I don't think there's any other government in any part of the world that's investing as much
money now in research to solve this problem.

Page84of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.China's at the cutting edge now. So I think you'll see a lot of innovation out of China. Because you can't
breathe in Beijing. In many days of the year, it's almost impossible to breathe. So people are experiencing
the cost of all of the development without it being balanced and without it being sustainable.
Therefore, China knows that for its survival, it needs to tackle this problem.
PIP COURTNEY: In your speech, you said India and China have no hope in hell of feeding themselves.

SUNNY VERGHESE: Yeah. So 'hope in hell' is probably a very strong word. If that's the headlines, then
I'm sure I'll get a lot of calls. But I think it's going to be very challenging for China and India to really
produce all the food that they need, because the governments in all of these places really have no clue -
not just China and India, I'm talking globally now - of how to address the food security problem. Because
when food prices go up in China and India, it's a very sensitive issue.

Onion prices go up in India, the government can fall. Because onion is used in every sort of cooking in
India. It's a common ingredient used in every kind of cooking. So onion prices go up, the government can
fall. So what was the government's first natural response is to impose price controls. When you impose
price controls, that's precisely the wrong policy measure. When you have rising prices, which is a result of
shortage of supply, you need to engineer a supply response. If you need to secure the supply response,
you need an undistorted price signal to go from the market to the farmer to incentivise them to produce
more. The moment China or India puts price controls - in China, edible oil price goes up, they put price
controls - it just exacerbates the problem.

PIP COURTNEY: Australian farmers hear much talk about the looming boom that lies ahead for them in
feeding Asia's growing population. Has that boom been overstated?

SUNNY VERGHESE: I think it'd be... probably not the right view to say that Australia will be the food
basket of the world, but Australia will be the most competitive producer. Australia will set the standards on
water usage efficiency, on agronomic practices, on breeding better varieties, and therefore Australia will
always be very competitive.

But at the end of the day, Australia will be a part of the solution, but will not be the solution. Cannot be the
solution, because it has also got constraints in terms of how much it can produce and how much it can
export. But given the fact that today Australia exports two-thirds of its agricultural production, which is a
much higher proportion than any other producing country - China, India, everything is all consumed locally
what they produce, or even in the East European countries or even... excepting for Latin American
countries.

So I think Australia will be a major catalyst for agricultural innovation and growth.

Australia, however, should continue to find the next practice. I always say that trying to be best practice is
lousy strategy because the whole world wants to be best practice. Everybody is trying to be best practice.
So everybody's achieving best practice, which means you're all middle of the pack. What does distinguish
Australia is that it has always invented next practice in agriculture. But in order to stay at the forefront, it
needs to invest in research, continue to invest in research, to find that next practice, the next
breakthrough, which becomes the global standard for everybody else to aspire for. In many commodities,
Australia really sets that tone. But it cannot rest on its laurels - it has to continue to work hard to retain that
edge.

PIP COURTNEY: Sunny Verghese, thank you for your time.

SUNNY VERGHESE: Thank you.

NS

i0100138 : Cotton/Silk Farming | i01001 : Farming | i0 : Agriculture | i61 : Wholesalers | i64 :
Retail/Wholesale | ifodwh : Food Wholesaling
c21 : Output/Production | cslmc : Senior Level Management | ntra : Transcripts | c41 : Management | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter |
nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

CO olamil : Olam International Limited
IN

RE
IPD Sunny
PUB Australian Broadcasting Corporation
AN

Document ABCTRS0020140810ea890002u

Page85of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.