Telcos Thodey unveils buyback and lifts dividend

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Telcos Thodey unveils buyback and lifts dividend

Max Mason
1,064 words
15 August 2014
Canberra Times
CANBTZ
B009
English
(c) 2014 The Canberra Times

Telcos Thodey unveils buyback and lifts dividend
Telstra's $4.7 billion payout

Max Mason

Telstra chief David Thodey announced the return of cash to shareholders. Photo: Louise Kennerley

'It's really important that we are continuing to invest in the business.'

David Thodey

Continued Page 24
Telstra will reward its almost 1.4 million shareholders for the second time this year with a $1 billion
share buyback and a bigger dividend.Telstra chief executive David Thodey announced the return of cash
to shareholders at the company's full-year result presentation on Thursday. He said that even after the
payout, the company would be keeping a cash stockpile of up to $5.1 billion. Telstra reported a 14.3 per
cent increase in its full-year, after-tax profit to $4.28 billion. Revenue increased by 3.5 per cent to $25.3
billion, slightly better than analysts had expected. "It's really important that we are continuing to invest in
the business, return dividends and then looking at the long-term value creation for the business by share
buyback. We think this is about the right mix for now," Mr Thodey said. The market responded
enthusiastically, sending Telstra shares up to a 12-year high of $5.58. They finished the day's trading 2.2
per cent higher, at $5.56. This is the second dividend increase of Mr Thodey's tenure. The first was
announced at the half- year result in February, which was the first increase in more than eight years.
Telstra will pay a final dividend of 15ï¿½, taking the total- year, fully franked dividend payment to 29.5ï¿½.
The share buyback will be funded using the cash generated from the sale of a 70 per cent stake of
directories business Sensis and
Telstra's 74.6 per cent interest in Hong Kong mobile provider CSL. Mr Thodey said a contribution would
also come from the the company's improving profit. Through the dividend and buyback, Telstra will return
$4.7 billion to investors. It still holds a free cash flow of between $4.6 billion and $5.1 billion. Many
analysts had expected Telstra to announce a buyback scheme worth as much as $2 billion because of
stronger cash flows and a lack of acquisition targets. "I think they'd like to take advantage of
opportunities as, and when, they see them," Auscap Asset Management principal Tim Carleton said.
"They've got ambitions in Asia, but at the same time it's a balancing act. "I suspect that if cash flow
continues to strengthen over time that they will continue with these sorts of capital return initiatives."
Telstra added 937,000 mobile subscribers over the year, most of them in the first half, as customers have
continued to switch from Optus and Vodafone. Telstra has 16
million mobile subscribers. Mobile revenue increased by 5.1 per cent to $9.7 billion. Aiming to
consolidate that competitive advantage, Mr Thodey said Telstra would invest $1 billion in the mobile
network in the 2015 financial year. Optus, whose parent companySingTel also reported on Thursday, lost
126,000 mobile subscribers in the last 12 months. Optus has 9.4 million mobile subscribers.Uptake of
mobile phones has

Page75of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Telstra sweetens dividend on $4.3b profit

Telstra shines on market.

From Page 21

slowed and many analysts say the Australian market has reached saturation point. Mr Thodey said he
was confident that changes in technology would mean more devices coming online. "You've now got to
think about every PC in the country, which can become a tablet. You've got to think about every car;
you've got to think about every bit of machinery, and suddenly the addressable base goes out to probably
80 or 90 million devices," he said. Telstra's fixed-line business had its best result in five years, with a
revenue fall of 7.5 per cent, Mr Thodey said. Telstra said it expected low,

single-digit income and earnings growth in the 2015 financial year to offset the loss of revenue from the
sale of CSL. Capital expenditure is expected to be about 14 per cent of sales. Cash payments from the
national broadband network (NBN) make a nice buffer for earnings, as mobile growth and average
revenue per user falls, Citi analyst Justin Diddams said. Following the Coalition government's move to
use a number of different technologies, including Telstra's copper network and wireless, for the NBN,
Telstra has been renegotiating its $11 billion in contracts signed under the previous government, whose
plan was for an all fibre-optic network. Mr Thodey said an agreement had not been finalised. "We have
agreed the non- binding commercial framework around which revised agreements would be built, and are
now working out the detail," he said.

slowed and many analysts say the Australian market has reached saturation point. Mr Thodey said he
was confident that changes in technology would mean more devices coming online. "You've now got to
think about every PC in the country, which can become a tablet. You've got to think about every car;
you've got to think about every bit of machinery, and suddenly the addressable base goes out to probably
80 or 90 million devices," he said. Telstra's fixed-line business had its best result in five years, with a
revenue fall of 7.5 per cent, Mr Thodey said. Telstra said it expected low,

single-digit income and earnings growth in the 2015 financial year to offset the loss of revenue from the
sale of CSL. Capital expenditure is expected to be about 14 per cent of sales. Cash payments from the
national broadband network (NBN) make a nice buffer for earnings, as mobile growth and average
revenue per user falls, Citi analyst Justin Diddams said. Following the Coalition government's move to
use a number of different technologies, including Telstra's copper network and wireless, for the NBN,
Telstra has been renegotiating its $11 billion in contracts signed under the previous government, whose
plan was for an all fibre-optic network. Mr Thodey said an agreement had not been finalised. "We have
agreed the non- binding commercial framework around which revised agreements would be built, and are
now working out the detail," he said.

RF
CO
IN
NS

RE

59377210
tcoma : Telstra Corporation Ltd
i7902 : Telecommunications
c1512 : Dividends | c15 : Performance | c151 : Earnings | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter |
nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
canbrr : Canberra | apacz : Asia Pacific | auscap : Australian Capital Territory | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
austr : Australia

PUB Federal Capital Press of Australia Pty Ltd
AN

Document CANBTZ0020140814ea8f00010

Page76of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.