City & Country: Cover Story - Leisure Farm revamp

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

City & Country: Cover Story - Leisure Farm revamp

Stories By Cecilia Chow
3,500 words
9 June 2014
The Edge Singapore
EDGESI
English
(c) 2014 The Edge Publishing Pte Ltd. All Rights Reserved.

Mulpha International is revising the master plan for its low-density resort-style development Leisure
Farm. It is adding facilities as well as boosting accessibility. This could lure more expatriates and
Singaporeans in pursuit of country living to move to Iskandar Malaysia.

Five years ago, Australian Andrew Gibson and his wife, Angela, made the decision to move to Iskandar
Malaysia. “Leisure Farm was the only place where we wanted to live,” says Gibson, 45, a Singapore
permanent resident who owns several software companies. “We wanted to have the quality of life we
were used to when we lived in South Africa and Australia. The idea was to live in Iskandar and continue
to work in Singapore.”

From a financial standpoint, it made a lot of sense even if it meant a longer commute. Their two
teenaged children continue to attend the Australian International School in Singapore. A taxi service was
engaged to ferry them every morning. This means waking up by 5.30am, and leaving the house by
6.30am to make it to school by 8.30am. For Gibson and his wife, it is a 40-minute commute from Leisure
Farm to their office in Bukit Timah.

To avoid rush hour, which is typically from 5.30pm to 8.30pm on weekdays, the Gibsons either leave
Singapore before 5pm or have a leisurely dinner and leave after 9pm. Being self-employed gives them
the flexibility of leaving early or working from home if they do not need to send their children to school.
The Gibson family home is a 6,500 sq ft bungalow sitting on a 12,000 sq ft freehold site. On weekends,
they enjoy going for walks, cycling or riding their scooters within the estate. He can also play golf, as
there is a golf course within Leisure Farm. They entertain a lot at home. “Friends who visit us from
Singapore love it here,” he says.
He even purchased another semi-detached house in Leisure Farm, which has since been leased. He is
confident that landed home prices there will see long-term capital appreciation. “For what you pay for a
three-bedroom apartment in Singapore, you will be able to rent a large house and get more value for
your money in Iskandar,” he says.
Jerry Tan, managing director of JTResi, a specialist in marketing luxury property, says, “For those who
live in a high-density urban environment like Singapore, Leisure Farm’s appeal is that it offers country
living, something that no amount of money can buy in Singapore — the wide open spaces, where
families can walk their dogs, and their children can play or cycle in the estate without worrying about
traffic.”

Developed in 1991 by listed Malaysian conglomerate, Mulpha International Bhd, Leisure Farm is located
in Gelang Patah and was a pioneer in Iskandar Malaysia. It was the first and is still the only developer to
offer one-acre plots for sale. It also offers houses, which are a mix of cluster housing, semi-detached
houses and bungalows, for sale in the master-planned resort development.

Greater connectivity

Owners of Leisure Farm are also looking forward to the future connectivity provided by the three
interchange roads, which Mulpha and UEM Sunrise Bhd have formed a joint venture to build. The
collaboration will create a direct link from Gerbang, Nusajaya and Leisure Farm to the

Page35of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Malaysia-Singapore Second Link. For those living in Leisure Farm, it will significantly cut travel time to
and from Leisure Farm to the Second Link to just five minutes, from 15 minutes now.

It will also mean that Leisure Farm will be the closest to the Second Link checkpoint in Iskandar, points
out Gibson. The residential market in Iskandar may have levelled off, he adds. “But it will take off again
once new developments come onstream.”

There are already several major developments underway in Gerbang. Ascendas and UEM Sunrise are
developing a tech park on a 210ha site, and Singaporean tycoon Peter Lim is developing Motorsports
City. The station for the high-speed rail between Singapore and Malaysia is speculated to be located in
Gerbang as well.

Negotiations are underway for another access road from Leisure Farm to connect it to Medini, where the
Mall of Medini, LegoLand and Pinewood Iskandar Malaysia Studios are located, says Wayne Wong,
Mulpha’s general manager of sales and marketing since December 2013.
It was the upcoming infrastructure that convinced Singaporean Albert Ng, 59, that he should purchase a
villa at Leisure Farm last year. Of course, it was the exclusivity of the development as well, he says. He
paid less than RM4 million ($1.6 million) for a 7,000 sq ft three-bedroom villa with a swimming pool
sitting on a 17,000 sq ft freehold site. And even though he completed the sale after the October
property cooling measures were announced by the Malaysian government, he did not back out, as he is
treating it as a long-term investment.

“Leisure Farm is my best investment in terms of luxury of space,” says Ng, a self-employed businessman
who is in the insurance industry. “It gives me the opportunity to live like a multimillionaire in a mansion
that would have cost at least $20 million in a place like Bukit Timah, which is something I can’t afford in
Singapore.”

He sees other retirees from Singapore, as well as small and medium-sized enterprises moving to
Iskandar as accessibility improves. “The cost of living is lower in Malaysia, and you can enjoy the same
level of healthcare as Singapore with the opening of Gleneagles and Thomson Medical in future,” he
says.

Time for update

The 22-year-old Leisure Farm is due for an update, as the rest of Iskandar is being transformed. The
entire Leisure Farm estate is 1,765 acres, or 1.4 times the size of Sentosa Island. There are another
600 acres yet to be developed, and therefore Mulpha is in the midst of revising its master plan, which
was conceived more than two decades ago, says Wong.

Mulpha even hired Austrian Robert Marek, a veteran in the hospitality sector, as Leisure Farm’s general
manager of residence and resort. Marek was director of operations at the Conrad Hotel in Hong Kong
and joined Leisure Farm six months ago.
“We wanted to differentiate Leisure Farm by bringing in the hotel resort-style lifestyle for the residents,”
says Marek. “That’s where I come in — to manage all the facilities here, starting from security, which is
very important, to housekeeping, engineering, maintenance and customer service.”

He estimates there are now 600 residents in Leisure Farm. In the past, many came only on weekends,
but more and more residents are now living in Leisure Farm permanently and commute to Singapore to
work daily. Therefore, more facilities and amenities are needed for the residents.

Plans are underway to add more facilities to the Bale Equestrian & Country Club. A new restaurant
operator from Singapore has been engaged to run the clubhouse. The new restaurant operator is the
same one managing the restaurant at Singapore Polo Club. In addition to operating the restaurant at the
Bale clubhouse, it intends to open a gourmet grocer
and delicatessen on the premises, offering a fine selection of freshly baked bread, cold cuts and
specialty wines. One of the viewing galleries will be turned into a bar, and the gym will be upgraded. Four
tennis courts have been built and the Tennis Academy from Singapore will start courses from July. The
horse riding school has already started lessons. There will also be a children’s playground, and other
activities include touch football, rugby and soccer. “We want the clubhouse to become a centre for
families, with a lot of facilities and activities for residents,” says Marek.

Last month, JTResi was appointed sole marketing agent for Mulpha’s Leisure Farm in Singapore and
Jakarta. Tan, who built his name in marketing Singapore luxury property to foreign buyers over the past
decade, particularly to Indonesians, has generally shied away from marketing foreign real estate. “We
decided to brand ourselves with a developer, where there’s longevity in the relationship, rather than

Page36of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.launch a different project for a different developer every weekend,” he says. “Mulpha saw us as such,
and appointed us so we can fully focus on their whole portfolio — Leisure Farm, Sanctuary Cove and
Hayman Island.”

Tan has started to see an emerging trend among the well-heeled international buyers and expatriates in
Singapore. His Indonesian and expatriate clients who have purchased condos in Singapore over the
past decade are now looking for an opportunity to buy a holiday home and they prefer a landed freehold
property, as they are restricted from buying such homes in Singapore. “They will certainly not bat an
eyelid to buy something in Leisure Farm for a fraction of the price in Singapore,” adds Tan. “This is a
potential market that is evolving, and I’m keen to put it to the test.”

New launch
So far this year, Mulpha has launched no new residential products within Leisure Farm. However, it
intends to roll out four different residential products later this year. These include villas sitting on
one-acre land parcels which are currently priced at $5 million; villas on half-acre land plots (about
23,000 sq ft) at $3 million; standard bungalows on 6,000 sq ft site, priced at $1.73 million; and
semi-detached houses on a 4,000 sq ft site at $1.1 million. There will also be cluster homes on offer
with built-up areas of 3,200 sq ft priced at $960,000.

Some bungalows in Leisure Farm have changed hands at more than RM200 psf, observes Mulpha’s
Wong. Thus, land prices have doubled in just the last two years. In 1991, some of these one-acre land
plots were sold for just RM6 to RM9 psf, thus prices today are more than 22 times higher than they were
two decades ago.
Mulpha plans to roll out 10 land parcels for sale by tender, with sizes ranging from 12,000 sq ft to one
acre. The tender is expected to be launched by month-end, and minimum bids will be given. “We’re
going to do this as an annual tender exercise,” says Wong. “It’s targeted at those who aspire to build
their own homes.” There are also plans to invite renowned architects to design some of the show villas.

Gibson is looking forward to the new facilities in Leisure Farm and Nusajaya. “There aren’t as many
choices in Nusajaya as there are in Singapore in terms of restaurants,” he says. “But, in a few years,
things will change.”

‘Heroes’ needed in Iskandar housing market

Singaporean Albert Ng says he was tempted to try out for one of the walk-on parts in the drama series
Marco Polo, about the legendary explorer, when they had an open casting. “But I found out that I had to
be in costume for 12 hours and would be paid RM200 per day, so I decided not to,” he says in a phone
interview. Unlike Ng, some of his neighbours at Leisure Farm can now boast that they are going to be
part of an international cast in Marco Polo, even if they are just walk-on roles. One of them scored the
role of a concubine, and another, a 75-year-old, got the part of a priest.

Even the horses at Leisure Farm’s Bale Equestrian & Country Club are basking in a sort of reflected
glory as they share their stables with some of the horses in the TV show. One of the scenes involving
“grasslands” is also going to be shot in Leisure Farm later this summer, says Robert Marek, general
manager of residence & resort at Leisure Farm Corp.
The Netflix epic series Marco Polo, by American film studio The Weinstein Company, will reportedly star
Italian actor Leonardo Richelmy in the title role. It is the first drama to be produced at the newly opened
Pinewood Iskandar Malaysia Studios. Designated as a catalytic development, Pinewood Studios
appears to be creating the desired ripple effect on other sectors, from hospitality to F&B, as well as retail.
For instance, anecdotal evidence is that Traders Hotel in Puteri Harbour by Shangri-La Hotels & Resorts
is running at full occupancy, as some of the cast and crew have taken up lodgings there.
Whether it would quell fears of an oversupply in the residential market in Iskandar remains to be seen,
but it is certainly generating a buzz among some homeowners there. “I bought a semi-detached house at
Bayou Creek in Leisure Farm as an investment because I was hoping I could lease it to one of these
people from Hollywood,” says Ng, 59, who is self-employed in the financial sector.
Just as every movie needs a hero, the residential market usually needs one or two heroes, says Donald
Han, managing director of Chesterton Singapore. In his view, these “heroes” are property developers
that launch a project that sees strong take-up rates, which will send positive signals to the rest of the
market, thereby encouraging other developers to follow suit. “So far, there are no heroes, as developers
have been holding back their launches,” he adds.

However, some have started to test the waters. Puteri Cove Residences was launched in early April,
followed by Eastern & Oriental (E&O)’s soft launch of Avira Garden Terraces at month-end. So far, of

Page37of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.208 terraced houses released, 70% have been sold at prices starting from RM1.38 million ($536,761).
Sunway Property is also said to have launched its Sunway Iskandar township project last week.

‘Music stops, back to fundamentals’
Since the Malaysian government unveiled its series of property cooling measures last October,
sentiment in the residential market in Iskandar Malaysia (Iskandar) has dampened. “Activity has
returned in the last two months, but it’s certainly nowhere near those levels seen before the measures
last October,” says Han.

People want to see whether valuations will keep pace with price increases, as some projects have seen
prices rise 20% in the past 12 months, says Han. “When the music stops, people start to take stock, and
focus on fundamentals.” Investors will focus on where infrastructure such as the MRT station, and the
high-speed rail station linking Singapore to Kuala Lumpur will be built,” says Han. “Any price increases
and rental potential will come from proximity to these infrastructure projects.”
One of the bright spots is landed housing priced from RM1 million ($390,000) to RM2 million, which is
still attractive to buyers from Singapore. However, the Sultan of Johor reportedly wants the minimum
purchase price for landed homes by foreigners to be raised to RM2 million. It was just increased to
RM1 million in this recent round of measures. Singaporean buyers have been blamed for driving up
property prices in Johor. According to the Monetary Authority of Singapore, Malaysian properties
account for more than half of all overseas property transactions made by Singaporeans last year.

Developers targeting the local Johor market continue to find interest in condos priced from RM500,000 to
RM600,000, and landed homes below RM1 million, he notes.

Housing supply
About 50,000 (inclusive of projects in Johor Baru city centre) new residential units are expected to come
onstream over the next three to four years, says Cushman & Wakefield in a recent research report. The
take-up rate for residential projects launched in recent years ranged from 40% to 60% (excluding units
reserved for bumiputera buyers).
Average prices of new residential projects currently range from $308 to $385 psf, up from $165 to $330
psf three years ago, says the property consultant. This translates into a capital appreciation of 25% to
100% in just a few years. Land prices in Iskandar have more than doubled since 2010, notes Cushman &
Wakefield.

“The large potential supply of new housing units coming onstream would translate into a wide variety of
housing types and choice of lifestyle for generations to come,” says Cushman & Wakefield in its report
on Iskandar released on June 3. “Iskandar is the answer for many aspiring homebuyers in Singapore
who are priced out of the market and constrained by lack of supply.”
So far, Iskandar has attracted RM131 billion in total investments and, since 2006, has created 554,000
new jobs. The population in Iskandar, which is 1.9 million today, is projected to hit three million by
2025, with a labour force of 1.46 million and more than 800,000 jobs created.

The concern is the incoming supply of housing stock, which includes delayed completion of units. As at
end-2Q2013, the figure for all of Malaysia stood at 654,563 units. Of that number, 22% was located in
Selangor, followed by 17% in Johor. “By averaging the incoming supply number over three years, we find
that there will be a supply of slightly above 200,000 units a year, compared with annual demand of close
to 100,000 units based solely on natural population growth,” says HSR Research in a report last month.

The 1Q2014 Malaysia All House Price Index showed flattish prices from 4Q2013 (see chart), although it
was still up 8% from a year ago. Likewise, Johor’s All House Price Index in 1Q2014 showed relatively flat
growth from 4Q2013. However, prices were still 11.5% higher in 1Q2014 from a year ago. On the other
hand, terraced house prices in Johor Baru are starting to show some weakness, with two consecutive
quarters of decline of 1.2% in 4Q2013 and 0.5% in 1Q2014, according to HSR.
Wild card — Chinese developers
However, the wild card is mainland Chinese developers who have ventured into Iskandar in recent
years. Last year, Country Garden Holdings created a stir when it launched all of its 9,200-unit Country
Garden @ Danga Bay. Rumours were rife that the developer was offering buyers of their projects in
China a steep discount on their unit purchases in Iskandar. This has led to fears that there could be
many vacant units when the project is completed. “The concern is that if they leave their units empty, it
may not be positive for the environment and could create security issues for other residents,” says Han.

Page38of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.In the pipeline is also a partnership between Country Garden and Kumpulan Prasarana Rakyat Johor,
the state government investment arm, for a massive reclamation project to build luxury homes near
Pendas in Iskandar. The site is believed to be much larger than Country Garden’s 20ha site in Danga
Bay.
Last December, Guangzhou R&F Properties Co Ltd paid the Sultan of Johor RM4.5 billion, or RM891
psf, for six plots of land covering an area of 47ha in the vicinity of the old Customs, Immigration and
Quarantine Complex. The developer intends to build a mix of high-rise condominium and low-density
housing, shops, offices, a hotel and a shopping mall on the site. The project is widely expected to be
launched next month.
In April, China’s state-owned giant Greenland Group, purchased a plot of land for RM600 million to
build a residential and commercial project. This is its maiden foray into Malaysia after it created waves
in the US, London and Australia with its massive investments as part of its global expansion.
The concern is that other mainland Chinese developers could adopt the same strategy as that of
Country Garden by launching their projects at one go and flooding the market, explains Chesterton’s
Han.
In the primary market, developers in Johor launched 10,161 residential units in 2013. It was considered
the most active residential property market in Malaysia, says HSR Research, attributing it largely to
progress in Iskandar and developers’ launching more units there.

Country Garden @ Danga Bay, which has more than 9,000 units, accounts for the bulk of the new units
launched. “So, all it took was for one big launch of a single project to soak up most of the demand for the
year,” reckons Han.

Since last October, some developers have already started adjusting the prices of their projects launched
last year by about 5%, adds Han. Others are offering rental guarantees, furniture packages and other
sweeteners to lure buyers back. “The Singapore style of sales by balloting has all but disappeared,” he
says.

Some developers believe the greater connectivity between Singapore and Malaysia as more
infrastructure projects are rolled out will spur a return of buyers from Singapore and the region. “With 11
Malaysian sales galleries now in Singapore, the latest being UM Land’s in Anson House, we expect to
see a wave of sales campaigns in the coming months,” says a property observer.

CO
IN
RE

mlphit : Mulpha International Berhad
i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
singp : Singapore | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
seasiaz : Southeast Asia

PUB The Edge Publishing Pte Ltd
AN

Document EDGESI0020140611ea690000e

Page39of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.