Market ends week flat after miners help recoup losses

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Market ends week flat after miners help recoup losses

Vesna Poljak
685 words
18 January 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
8
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

STOCKS

The sharemarket finished the week barely changed, down 0.1 per cent, despite featuring the worst
one-day fall since September.

Shares clawed back Tuesday's 1.5 per cent loss, buoyed by renewed interest in mining stocks.

The S&P/ASX 200 Index closed at 5305.9 on Friday, a fall of 3.2 points or 0.06 per cent for the
session.

The benchmark index has started the year in subdued fashion and shares are down 0.9 per cent
since the beginning of the month.
Paladin Energy posted a 25 per cent surge in value over the past five days, making it the best
performer on the ASX 200 index. The miner achieved important debt refinancing on African mines
over the period, persuading investors that it is better placed to meet its repayments. The stock
closed up 7¢ at 56¢.

OZ Minerals also outperformed, gaining 16.5 per cent.
The company delivered an upbeat production report that beat expectations and put the squeeze on
short sellers.

Dragging down the index over the week was Super Retail Group, the operator of sporting chain
Rebel, Supercheap Auto and Ray's Outdoors, which reported weak sales numbers for the first half,
including the critical Christmas retail period. The shares slumped 16.7 per cent to close at $10.79.

Fellow consumer discretionary retailer JB Hi-Fi fared little better, down 9.1 per cent for the week.

Widespread selling on the exchange on Tuesday threatened to derail a passive start to the year
when stocks shed $24 billion on fears the corporate reporting season in the US would yield poor
results and comments from a Federal Reserve official that alluded to a hawkish outlook for monetary
policy.

Anticipating and reacting to the Fed's actions was the dominant driver of global markets last year,
and this year will probably be no different, HSBC chief economist Paul Bloxham said.

"I still think the big story for 2014 is going to be watching the Fed, because it has implications for
bond markets, for equity markets, for what's happening with currencies," he said.

"We had a practice run at tapering in 2013 and what we saw is it can have some pretty massive
implications for a whole set of emerging economies that rely on foreign capital."

Page29of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mr Bloxham was referring to the behaviour of markets last May when the Fed dropped its first hint of
a reduction in its $US3 trillion-plus ($3.4 trillion) quantitative easing program.

As expectations of a change in policy mounted, markets seized up and foreign capital made a flash
exit from developing economies.

"It's still the case that US financial developments dominate financial markets," Mr Bloxham said. "I
suspect China is going to be very much in focus as well, they look as though they're in the process
of reforming their economy in a whole range of areas and that will probably be something that
financial markets will respond to."

Consumer discretionary stocks were the weakest-performing group among the ASX 200 stocks over
the past fortnight, shedding 2.5 per cent. They were among the biggest winners of last year when
interest rates sat at record lows, and they face the threat of policy tightening this year as economies
recover.

On Wednesday, the World Bank upgraded its growth outlook for the global economy to 3.2 per cent -
up from 2.4 per cent last year.

The World Bank, too, is betting the Fed will continue to unwind its stimulus program over the course
of the year.

In the week ahead, the Reserve Bank will release its December quarter inflation data, which could
reveal for the first time evidence that the Australian dollar is pushing up the prices of products such
as petrol.

Mr Bloxham also said fiscal policy would play a greater role in the economy this year. "One of the
key risks to this year is fiscal policy," he said, attributing greater importance to the coming federal
budget.

golpla : OZ Minerals Limited | palrs : Paladin Energy Limited | sucaut : Super Retail Group Limited
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i6492 : Automotive Parts/Tire Stores | i654 :
Specialty Stores | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | iretail : Retail |
iuran : Uranium Ore Mining
austr : Australia | namz : North America | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020140117ea1i0000s

CO
IN

RE

PUB
AN

Page30of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.