Aussie companies ripe for takeovers

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Aussie companies ripe for takeovers

TONY KAYE, ANALYSIS
671 words
1 February 2014
Daily Telegraph
DAITEL
Telegraph
57
English
Copyright 2014 News Ltd. All Rights Reserved

If all the financial forecasts are correct, conditions are right for a surge in the number and size of
corporate takeover deals across Australia in 2014.
An acceleration of the global economic recovery, rising business confidence, a lower Australian dollar,
and a growing list of cashed-up corporate investors eager to buy up premium, undervalued assets
around the world, will likely propel mergers and acquisitions activity.

Factors such as low interest rates and improved funding options, mean potential buyers can raise
affordable funds from banks or capital markets if they desire. In addition, general expectations that the
Australian economy will slow means organic growth might be harder to come by – and so growth by
acquisition could appear very attractive for some companies.

And, with the government taking aggressive steps to pay down sovereign debt, overall uncertainty about
Australian financial risk is rapidly improving.

Takeover deals will come in all shapes and sizes, with some hostile and others representing a meeting of
corporate minds. Cashed-up private equity firms and venture funds, including from the US and Europe,
also are likely to be among the key takeover players.
Foreign companies are keen to invest here, a fact keeping the Foreign Investment Review Board busy.
The FIRB was tested last year when it scrutinised but rejected a $3.4 billion offer for grain co-operative
GrainCorp by Canada’s Archer Daniels Midland. It deemed the bid not to be in the national interest.
But scores of other foreign bids have been approved, including a large number from China. Just in the
last few days Canadian dairy giant Saputo tightened its takeover hold on Victoria’s Warrnambool
Cheese & Butter, with its $530 million deal enough to stave off stiff competition from Australian bidding
rivals Bega Cheese and the Murray Goulburn co-operative.
New figures by research firm Dealogic show 1,393 M&A deals involving Australian companies, with a
combined value of $US86 billion, were announced last year.
The biggest was the $7.5 billion acquisition of Singapore Power’s Australian energy assets by China’s
power distributor State Grid, followed by the $7 billion restructure of the Westfield property group, and
the $5.3 billion sale of Port Botany and Port Kembla by the NSW government to a consortium led by
Industry Funds Management.

More big deals are on the cards, with infrastructure assets one of the biggest areas identified as the
federal and state governments move to privatise industrial operations ranging from electricity generation
and distribution to hospitals, roads, railway lines and rolling stock to ports.
While some experts predict the mining sector won’t be a major area of takeover activity, the devaluing
effect of lower prices for some metals and a lower Australian dollar will put many resources companies
into the bidding zone.

Page86of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Indeed, of current takeover deals underway involving Australian-listed companies, a high percentage
relate to mining companies. Takeovers specialist Tom Elliott this week named in Eureka Report three
listed companies that he has on his radar screen as hot buys. They include a listed mortgage broker, an
online travel bookings company, and a major oil and gas producer. He also listed three well-known
companies as wait/holds on the basis he expects there will be further activity in them over time. Elliott
has a fine takeover record. He named Warrnambool Cheese & Butter as a takeover target last
September, the day before Bega launched a surprise $319 million bid for the company. Now he says
it’s time Warrnambool shareholders enjoyed the cream.

But there are plenty of potential takeover deals in other sectors. It’s a case of picking the trends and
buying into the opportunities.

This article is part of Eureka’s ‘It’s Time’ special series, which reveals investment strategies for 2014.

Tony Kaye is the Editor of Eureka Report. To read more go to www.eurekareport.com.auTrial Eureka
Report free for 21 days. Register now at www.eurekareport.com.au

NS

c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | npred : Economic Predictions/Forecasts | cacqu : Acquisitions |
c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB News Ltd.
AN

Document DAITEL0020140131ea210002v

Page87of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.