Fortescue attempts to distance itself from Clive Palmer's anti- China tirade

Angela Kean

SE
HD
BY
WC 537 words
PD
SN
SC
VOL Issue: 81844
LA
CY
LP

SNL Extra
Fortescue attempts to distance itself from Clive Palmer's anti-China tirade

21 August 2014
SNL Metals & Mining Daily: East Edition
SNLMMDE

English
Copyright 2014. SNL Financial LC

TD

Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. CEO Neville Power has labeled Palmer United Party leader Clive Palmer's
recent derogatory remarks about China as "unhelpful," in an attempt to distance the Australian iron ore
producer from the anti-China comments.
"Clearly they're not helpful comments, and it just sounded like a bit of ranting and raving, and I'm sure that
the Chinese will dismiss them for what they are," Power told reporters during an Aug. 20 earnings call.

He added that the comments do not do a lot to continue to build the strong relationship that Australia
already has with China.
Palmer made comments on the ABC News "Q&A" program Aug. 18, claiming that the Chinese
government was trying to take over Australia's ports to get the country's resources for free.
"So far they have shipped more than [A]$200 million worth of iron ore out of this country without paying
for it, and I don't mind standing up against the Chinese bastards and stopping them from doing it," he
said.

He went on to say that Australia has had three judgments made in federal and Supreme courts, as well as
arbitration against "these Chinese mongrels."
"I'm saying this because they're communists, because they shoot their own people, they haven't got a
justice system and they want to take over this country, and we're not going to let them do it," he
continued.
Palmer is embroiled in a court battle with China's CITIC Pacific Ltd., a partner in the A$10 billion
Sino-Iron mine in Western Australia, over his financial dealings relating to the operation of the Cape
Preston port. He is alleged to have withdrawn A$12 million slated for the operation of the port to instead
fund his political campaign.

Power said both the Australian opposition and government have distanced themselves from Palmer's
comments and made it very clear where the country stands and the same goes for Fortescue.
"We have very strong relationships with our Chinese customers and with the Chinese people generally,
not just through the delivery of iron ore," he said. "We also purchase a lot of major mining equipment in
China.
"Our ties with China are very deep and very strong and I think we represent the face of what Australian
business really means in terms of its relationship and ongoing partnership with China."
Meanwhile, the Liberal-led Australian government took the opportunity to reiterate its respect for China on
the back of Palmer's comments.

Minister for Trade and Investment Andrew Robb said in an Aug. 19 statement that the government "wants
to make it perfectly clear that it greatly values Australia's strong and growing relationship with China and
its people."

Page411of416©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.China is the country's largest trading partner, with two-way trade approaching A$150 billion, representing
more than 20% of Australia's total trade.
The government hopes to conclude a free trade agreement with China in 2014, as well as strengthen
business ties with the nation following Prime Minister Tony Abbott's 700-strong business mission earlier in
2014.

CO ambol : Fortescue Metals Group Ltd
IN

NS
RE

i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
c11 : Plans/Strategy | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC
Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

IPD Lines of Business
PUB SNL Financial LC
AN

Document SNLMMDE020140826ea8l0000t

Page412of416©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.