Challenges await Australia's LNG ascendancy

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY

LP

TD

COMPANIES
Challenges await Australia's LNG ascendancy

By Jamie Smyth in Gladstone
1,117 words
3 October 2014
Financial Times
FTFT
USA Ed1
15
English
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles
and redistribute by email or post to the web.

Proposed pipeline between Russia and China, US shale and rising costs are causing investors to hold
back on new projects
The flame flickering on top of a gas flare tower on Curtis Island in Gladstone is a symbol of a rising
power in the liquefied natural gas market as three huge coal seam gas plants prepare for switch-on.

In Asia, where governments are seeking cleaner energy sources to complement coal and oil, LNG is
highly prized. For Australia , it has changed the country's energy landscape.

"Australia is poised to become the world's biggest exporter with 84m tonnes of LNG capacity coming
into production by about 2018," says Rod Duke, head of LNG at Santos, an Australian energy company.

"The Gladstone projects will be the main contributors," he says.

Energy companies have invested $200bn in Australian projects over the past decade, including three
LNG plants in Gladstone operated by consortiums led by the UK's BG Group and Australia's Santos,
and Origin Energy.
The plants are the first in the world to convert coal seam gas to LNG. BG Group's plant is due to go into
production within weeks, while the other facilities will be switched on next year.

But as the country prepares to overtake Qatar as the world's biggest LNG exporter , Australia faces
competition from US shale gas, a proposed pipeline between Russia and China and rising costs.

This has caused investors to press the pause button on a further $100bn-plus planned projects as they
consider which country offers the best return on LNG investments.

"We think it will be very difficult for new greenfield Australian projects to compete equally with those from
the US, particularly as the buyers are now looking for lower LNG pricing," says John Hirjee, Deutsche
Bank analyst.

A shale gas revolution in the US , which is forecast to see LNG production treble by 2035, is prompting
companies such as Cheniere Energy and Sempra Energy to export to Asia.

More than a dozen projects in Africa and Canada are also planned, providing Asian buyers with
alternative and cheaper supplies.

Deutsche says current contract prices to ship LNG from Australia to Japan are about $14-$15 per
million British thermal units whereas the equivalent price of US LNG is $11.84.

Competition has hit Chevron's Gorgon project in Western Australia, which is scheduled for completion in
2015. So far it has sold just 65 per cent of gas in 20-25 year long-term contracts, compared with a
target of 85 per cent.

Page162of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."With the degree of uncertainty that there is about US exports and the size of US exports, I think you
can understand why buyers might want to wait a little bit to see how that all lands out before going
forward to secure longer-term contracts," Pat Yarrington, Chevron's chief financial officer, said last
month.

Santos says the threat posed by US shale is overblown due to huge demand growth, with LNG's share
of Asian gas supply forecast to rise from 35 per cent to 52 per cent by 2030. It questions whether US
shale gas will be cheaper for Asian buyers in the long run.

"If you look at the cost of liquefying that gas and transporting it via the Panama Canal all the way across
the Pacific, the actual delivered price into north Asia is not materially different from Australian projects,"
says Mr Duke.
He adds that a planned pipeline supplying Russian gas to China will only meet 6 per cent of gas
demand and therefore not threaten LNG exports.

The greater threat to Australia's LNG industry is high costs, according to producers, which have incurred
spending "blow outs" when building projects. For example the Gorgon project is now forecast to cost
$54bn, compared with initial estimates of $37bn in 2009. Santos's plant in Gladstone was initially set to
cost $16bn and will now come in at $18.5bn.

McKinsey & Co has estimated it costs 20-30 per cent more to build projects in Australia than in the US
or east Africa, due to a strong local dollar, high labour costs and the nature of its gas reserves.

Several projects are stalled, including a A$10bn (US$8.8bn) coal seam gas LNG plant in Gladstone,
which is proposed by a consortium of Arrow Energy, Royal Dutch Shell and PetroChina.

"There is a lot of risk built into these projects," says Alistair Cathcart, head of LNG at Bechtel, the US
company building all three of the coal seam gas plants in Gladstone.

He says it is unlikely investment will begin flowing into greenfield projects in the near future.

The LNG industry is also lobbying Canberra to reform employment law and streamline visa regulations
for foreign workers, warning Australia could lose its title as the biggest LNG exporter shortly after it wins
it.

"Greenfield projects in any part of the world are always challenges," says Mr Duke. "The challenges for
those projects can be overcome if both companies and governments really get their act together and
overcome some of the constraints and challenges they are facing."

Coal seam gas explained

Pioneering route to the markets of Asia
It is the biggest building site in Australia, with more than 13,000 employees toiling away over five years
to construct the world's first coal seam gas LNG plants.
Each of the three facilities on Curtis Island uses two-and-a-half times as much concrete as the Empire
State building and five times as much steel as the Eiffel Tower.

A single gas storage unit is the size of a football pitch and 30m tall.

"What is pioneering about the project is that we are taking that coal seam gas and making it into LNG
and selling it into the market in Asia," says Brenton Hawtin, Santos general manager.

Coal seam gas is a type of natural gas high in methane, which is trapped underground in coal seams by
water and ground pressure.

It is recovered by drilling wells, fracking the coal seam and removing water.
The gas is pumped by pipeline from the Queensland interior to Curtis Island.

It is cooled to minus 161°C, which shrinks it in size making it easier and more efficient to transport to
markets in Asia such as Japan, China and South Korea.

The three consortiums all include Asian energy companies. Australia Pacific LNG is a joint venture
project between ConocoPhillips, Origin Energy, and Sinopec.

Page163of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Santos has teamed up with Petronas, Total and Kogas while BG Group's partners are China National
Offshore Oil Corporation and Tokyo Gas.

CO
IN

RE

PUB
AN

boral : Origin Energy Ltd | brgas : BG Group PLC
iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction | i1300014 : Natural Gas Extraction | i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude
Oil/Natural Gas
russ : Russia | austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eeurz : Central/Eastern Europe |
eurz : Europe | ussrz : CIS Countries
The Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)
Document FTFT000020141003eaa30002t

Page164of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.