GRIEF OF THE REEF

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

QWeekend
GRIEF OF THE REEF

Frances Whiting
4,140 words
1 February 2014
The Courier-Mail
COUMAI
1
8
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Its a national and global icon, but an unholy row brews in the underwater cathedral off the Queensland
coast, pitting economics against emotion, cash versus conservation.

This is where it begins - 85km north-east of Bundaberg off the Queensland coastline, a white cay rises
out of the ocean bed, its bony fingers reaching out to create part of what Captain James Cook called, in
June 1770, the coral "labyrinth".

Lady Elliot Island is the southernmost coral cay of the Great Barrier Reef. Visible from space, the reef
extends more than 2300km along the coastline, a 344,400 sq km mosaic dotted with some 3000 coral
reefs, 600 continental islands, 300 coral cays and about 150 inshore mangrove islands. Lady Elliot marks
the southern start of a reef system so beautiful the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organisation, in its 1980 annual report, asserted: "If only one coral reef site in the world were to be
chosen for the world heritage list, the Great Barrier Reef is that site." Granted heritage status in 1981, the
reef is a biodiverse wonderland where some 1500 species of fish swim, 4000 species of mollusc cling,
and 400 species of coral spawn. Diving beneath the surface on Lady Elliot is like visiting an underwater
cathedral, a serene and silent place where giant turtles lumber by like old men of the sea, and stingrays
inch their way across the ocean's floor.

But a storm is swirling around these deceptively calm waters, one in which state and federal
governments, minor political parties, mining giants, environmentalists, tourism operators, anglers, locals,
visitors and everyday Australians alike all have a stake. Here, at the gateway to the reef, begins the story
of the protracted battle over how best to conserve it.

In May last year, Australian newspapers and other national and international media outlets carried
headlines such as "World Heritage Shame!" and stories warning that the reef might be listed as "in
danger" by UNESCO when the global watchdog convenes in Qatar in June this year. If this comes to
pass, Australia will be the only developed country in the world to have a heritage site on the "in danger"
list, a potential global embarrassment no-one on either side of the debate wants to happen.

So how did it come to this? The warning came after UNESCO sent an 11-day monitoring mission to the
reef in March 2012. Its report found the reef's management wanting, issuing the equivalent of a
diplomatic slap on the wrist to both state and federal governments. Among other recommendations, it
asked them to continue to provide funding to compile a "Reef Water Quality Protection Plan", and to
subsequently publish a "Reef Water Quality Report Card', which was released in July last year.

The report gave the reef the equivalent of a "C", downgrading the inshore water quality from moderate to
poor. And it was this downgrade that prompted the slew of warnings about the imminent demise of one of
the world's great natural wonders.

But just how imminent, or even likely, that demise may be is the subject of such wildly differing opinions
that Captain Cook might have been more prescient to describe the great reef he encountered in 1770 as
"the political labyrinth".

Page88of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.What most agree on are the main dangers to the reef's health - rising water temperatures, the crown of
thorn starfish infestation, agricultural fertiliser and pesticide run-off, natural weather patterns such as
floods and cyclones and, most controversial of all, increased industrial activity in, or nearby, the reef's
waters.

Specifically - and it's an issue thornier than any starfish infestation - is the effect of dredging within the
reef's waters to create channels deep and wide enough for ships transporting coal and other exports to
make their way through. The expansion of Queensland's coal industry in the past ten years has meant a
parallel expansion of infrastructure to support it, prompting UNESCO to note in its report:

"The scale and pace of development proposals appear beyond the capacity for independent, quality and
transparent decision-making ... few developments are refused, some overlap and no development limits
have been set by governments." This brings us to the flashpoint of the reef debate, Abbot Point, a
picturesque spot about 25km north of Bowen in North Queensland.

On December 10 last year, federal Environment Minister Greg Hunt gave the green light to the port
authority for dredging that would allow the development of three coal export terminals. His decision
marked the end of a lengthy process that saw the previous Labor government baulk twice before the
post, and Hunt himself postpone an earlier decision.
Dredging approval allows three million cubic metres of dredge spoil to be dumped somewhere within the
reef's waters (the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority was expected to make a decision on the
dredge disposal by yesterday, January 31.) The minister simultaneously announced approval for a new
coal terminal at Abbot Point for India's Adani mining group; a $20 billion Liquefied Natural Gas facility
on Curtis Island (about 11km off Gladstone in Central Queensland) for Arrow Energy; and a gas
transmission pipeline to Curtis Island, also for Arrow Energy. The announcement came with some 45
environmental conditions for Abbot Point and 35 for Curtis Island, including a maximum of 1.5 million
cubic metres to be dredged in any given year, and for dredging to be limited to between March and June,
avoiding peak coral spawning times. Hunt described the Abbot Point conditions as "some of the strictest
in Australian history", and his decision to go ahead with the project was either applauded as sound and
stimulating economic policy or regarded as the environmental equivalent of spraypainting over the Mona
Lisa.

For the Queensland Government, the Abbot Point decision was, in many ways, a no-brainer. "Listen, you
can't be green if you're hungry," Jeff Seeney says. The Deputy Premier seems a little weary of having to
explain his government's strategy for the reef, pointing out that he loves the natural wonder "as much as
any other Queenslander", adding that he has a son who lives in Cairns and several other family members
employed in various industries "dependent on the reef's good health".

"I, like many other Queenslanders, love the Great Barrier Reef and appreciate its uniqueness, its beauty
and the real need to look after it for future generations." But, says Seeney, he is also a realist, one who
believes the biggest threat to the reef is "the collapse of the Queensland economy".

"If you look anywhere around the world, the countries where the economies are failing are [those that are]
also doing very poorly environmentally," Seeney says. "A healthy environment needs a healthy economy
to support it." To that end, late last year and about three weeks before the Hunt announcement, the state
government released its own draft "Queensland Ports Strategy", declaring five Priority Point Development
Areas in Queensland. These development areas would apply to the ports of Brisbane, Mackay/Hay Point,
Abbot Point, Gladstone and Townsville, where development would be "concentrated and encouraged"
over the next ten years. Seeney says the development areas were the government's response to one of
UNESCO's key recommendations that it "ensure no port developments or infrastructure be permitted
outside the existing and long-established major port areas within or adjoining the property".

They have a dual function: "We're ensuring our powers to restrict development within five existing ports,
and enabling development within those areas so that it isn't incentivised to go somewhere else," Seeney
says. There's no doubt mining is big business in Queensland - according to 2012/2013 data from peak
industry body the Queensland Resources Council, it's worth an estimated $75 billion to the economy
annually, including purchases, jobs and additional economic activity. If this figure is correct (the Greens
in Queensland call it "wildly exaggerated"), then no wonder the government is keen to protect it. For
example, in November last year it gave $28.4 billion via reduced start-up royalties to support mining
projects in Central Queensland's Galilee Basin.
Mining is not, Seeney insists, the big bad wolf of the reef debate; rather it's been miscast by
"conservationists and a number of other groups who are philosophically opposed to any further
expansion of the coal industry". "I think we need to understand where the real pressure on the reef
comes from, and all the scientific evidence points to several things - natural weather events, plus urban
and agricultural development along the coast of Queensland. Yet port development and dredging is often

Page89of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.used as a cynical tool in the debate playing on the genuine concern I and all Queenslanders have for the
Great Barrier Reef," Seeney says.

He points out that it was the newly minted LNP Government which put a stop to the previous Labor
government's much larger plans for Abbot Point. They included six proposed new coal terminals, and a
whopping 35 million cubic metres of dredging. "Our proposal will require one-tenth of the dredging Labor
was proposing, which was, of course, ludicrous, so we stopped it." Seeney, it seems, doesn't dispute
dredging has an adverse effect on the environment. What he, and others, question is just how much of an
effect, and how long-lasting.

IN THE TORRES STRAIT ISLANDS where he is conducting research, Jon Brodie believes he knows the
answer. Shouting down a crackly and windy phone line, the Senior Principal Research Officer with the
Australian Centre for Tropical Freshwater Research at Townsville's James Cook University, and lead
author on the 2013 Scientific Consensus Statement on the Great Barrier Reef compiled for the
Queensland Government, gives his verdict: "Well, dredging the reef is a disaster, of course, and
everyone knows it's a disaster. We've seen in the past what happens to areas where dredging which is
not monitored and managed to best practice occurs, and yet here we are, allowing it to happen within the
Great Barier Reef of all places," he shouts.

But while it seems everyone knows dredging does something to the water, just what it does is murkier.
After dredging, its spoil needs to go somewhere, and the current preferred disposal methods are dumping
it at sea, or by building a rock wall, known as a bund wall, in shallow harbours, backfilling it with the spoil,
and re-terming it "land reclamation".

Both dredging and spoil dumping (in the water) produces "plumes" of fine sediment, which can be
transported by currents, breaking up and reconfiguring again and again as it travels. The travelling
plumes create cloudy and turbid water, which causes problems for coral and seagrass growth, both of
which need clear waters to thrive.

The seagrass meadows that sway so picturesquely along the seabeds of the reef also provide havens of
food and shelter for fish, turtles and dugongs.

"The reef has lost 50 per cent of its total coral over the past 27 years," Brodie's voice crackles down the
line - and general consensus agrees with this figure, if not with the causes. "The dugongs have almost
gone, apart from up here in the Straits, and the turtles and seagrass they feed off are declining. The
water quality has declined, the crown of thorns continues to expand, so where in that environment is this
amount of proposed dredging a good idea to throw into the mix?" Brodie asks. "It's just one less stress on
the reef that could have been, and should have been, avoided." Projected estimates of the amount of
spoil the Priority Point Development Areas - including the newly proposed Abbot Point development -
would create are again wildly varied. Brodie says his own calculations show 140 million tonnes of spoil
will be created over the next decade.

Seeney dismisses both the figure and the way Brodie reached it as "guesstimates", and points to his
government's evidence that identifies the major causes of coral and seabed loss on the reef as cyclone
and storm damage (48 per cent), crown of thorns starfish (42 per cent) and coral bleaching (10 per cent).
Those figures come from a study published in 2012 by the Australian Institute of Marine Science and the
University of Wollongong.

"Such studies make it clear that extreme weather events [such as the 2010/2011 Queensland floods and
Cyclone Yasi] and the legacy effects of over a century of agricultural development have combined to
produce water quality impacts ... and [they make it clear] that the contribution of port development and
dredging make to water quality changes are minor," Seeney asserts.

The deputy premier says he will be happy to provide UNESCO with documentation showing that water
quality improvements in the reef are on a "positive trajectory".

"Contrary to what some parties would have us believe, it's not all doom and gloom."
HIGH UP ON NORTH QUEENSLAND'S ATHERTON Tableland, dairy farmer Colin Daley is part of the
good news. Daley, 51, is a member of the Reef 2050 plan, a collaborative project between farmers and
the federal and state governments which began in 2008, and was formerly known as the Reef Rescue
program. Farmers are given financial incentives ($200 million to date, $200 million more pledged over
the next five years) to introduce better management practice to reduce run-off sediment, containing the
nutrients nitrogen and phosphorus (catnip to the destructive, coral-devouring crown of thorns) and
pesticides, to the reef.

The first phase of Reef 2050 ran from June 2008 to June last year, and saw 2100 farmers improve their
soil management techniques and fertiliser and pesticide applications. The scheme has been widely seen

Page90of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.as a success, with a measurable reduction of 360,000 tonnes of agricultural sediment in its first two
years, from more than 1.5 million hectares of land.
Daley, speaking from his 258ha, 240-head property, says he is "really happy" to have joined the
incentive. "I've been on the farm all my life, born and bred on this briar patch. I started dairying straight
out of school, and back then you didn't think too much about things like run-off, but of course it makes
sense to reduce it where we can.

"We're a high rainfall area on the Tableland, 3000 feet [900m] above sea level, and a lot of it ends up
going down to the coast and out to the sea.

Our creek, for example, flows into the Johnstone River near Innisfail, and in turn out to the ocean." With
what Dr Peter Doherty, a fellow with the Australian Institute of Marine Science, describes as a "tsunami"
of crown of thorns starfish edging down the Queensland coastline, the reduction of run-off from farms is a
proven weapon in the battle to contain it. While the starfish are also increasing in number due to natural
causes such as flooding (which causes the water to become laden with nutrient-rich sediments), one
study has found that farm run-off was responsible for more than 40 per cent of coral loss over the past 27
years.

Daley admits candidly that when he first signed up for Reef 2050, the attraction was probably "a little
more profit-driven", but now it has become part of his family's farming "legacy".

"The main thing we have done is instead of letting the manure just run off from the yards, we now contain
it in a pond, and then spread it over the largest possible area. That way we're reducing the run-off and its
intensity, we're not overloading a tiny area, and we're really diluting what does go out.

"We've also really cut down our fertiliser applications, and use of pesticides. We no longer do any
broad-acre spraying; rather, we do spot-spraying of weeds, and yeah, I feel pretty good about that. If we
can in our own way stop the progression and blooming of starfish, then I would be pretty happy about
that, I reckon.

"I've got three kids, and that makes you think a bit about your legacy. The reef is an icon, one that I
reckon we should all do our bit to protect."

IT'S NOT A HARD SELL, THE REEF. Worldrenowned, its stunning underwater structures are the stuff of
which postcard dreams are made, and a place Queenslanders are quick to claim as their own natural
wonder. Its state of health is the one issue about which Greens Senator Larissa Waters believes all
Australians care deeply, the one battle, as she puts it, "I think we [the Greens] can win".

"If you ask anybody would they like to see the reef protected for all time, they'll of course say yes, but if
you tell them that may not be the case, they seem amazed ... 'Wow, this reef we thought was so beautiful
and protected is actually under threat?' "I think one of the reasons some of the more reckless decisions
about the reef have been allowed to get through is because people have an assumption that it is
somehow protected, when recent announcements are showing us very clearly that it's not." For Waters
and the Greens, the number one threat to the reef's health remains climate change, but the senator
concedes that particular message is increasingly hard to sell. "I think there's been so much noise about
whether or not climate change is real, it's drowned out the facts, which is that when oceans warm, it does
real damage to coral, with only a one-degree rise in temperature needed to cause mass bleaching,"
Waters says. "But while climate change is the main threat, the drivers of climate change are also a threat,
including the massive new coal mines planned for the Galilee Basin, which in turn have caused the
demand for the shipping routes out of the Great Barrier Reef." So, perhaps instead of the less palatable
climate change debate, the Greens are focusing their efforts on lobbying for a complete ban of dredging
and offshore dumping of spoil within world heritage waters; to stopping all port expansions, including
Abbot Point; and on the protection of areas such as the Fitzroy River Delta (south of Rockhampton) and
Cape York, also mooted for new coal and gas port developments. Waters says the Greens further
question whether mining is "the great economic hope it's made out to be", and the real amount of jobs
the industry creates.

"Our research through the Australia Institute [which describes itself on its website as an "independent
think tank"] shows us that 86 per cent of mining profits go offshore; communities rarely benefit,
particularly in the case of fly-in, fly-out mining, and that a healthy reef actually creates roughly 35,000
more jobs than the mining industry, with 63,000 jobs directly attributable to a thriving reef." Australian
Marine Conservation Society Great Barrier Reef campaign director Felicity Wishart takes a somewhat
softer stance. "We recognise that Queensland has a number of active working ports and we are not
saying shut them down, nor are we saying no more mining," Wishart tells Qweekend.

Page91of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."But we are also saying, let's take a breath here. In the past few years, particularly from 2009, there has
been this massive race to expand our coal industry, major expansion plans in the Surat and Galilee
basins which has led to this twin demand for expanding our ports.
"In 2009 coal was fetching up to $180 a tonne, now [at the time of writing] it's down to $94 a tonne, and
all the signs are that the demand for our coal, particularly from China, is decreasing. So - and it's a pretty
big question when you are looking at fiddling with something as finely balanced as the reef - is all this
expansion really necessary?" A study by Britain's Oxford University entitled "Stranded Down Under?" and
released in late December last year suggests it may not be.
Commissioned by the Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, the report found that while
Australia has current proposals for 89 coal mines, with the potential capability of doubling annual output
from 430 million tonnes in 2011 to 980 million tonnes by 2020, global coal prices may not match the
price of production.
The report said that both Clive Palmer's proposed China First mine in the Galilee Basin, and Alpha Coal
Project - 79 per cent owned by Indian company GVK and 21 per cent owned by Gina Rinehart - have
likely production costs well above the present $94 a tonne, leaving them both vulnerable to delay or
cancellation.

"So," Wishart further asks, "are we risking the reef for something which may not even prove to be as
economically viable as first thought?" "Absolutely not," counters Seeney, adding that all his government's
data points to a continuing, thriving coal industry. Coal is still Queensland's predominant commodity
export, representing 63 per cent of volume, with the government's Priority Point Development Areas
currently handling 87 per cent of its $54.5 billion in exports.

But should the boom bust, Seeney says, "it doesn't really matter, because like any infrastructure it would
have to be deconstructed ... but I can't really see that day."

JUST FIVE WEEKS AFTER HUNT GAVE the green light to dredging at Abbot Point came the
environment minister's further announcement, on January 20, of an independent commission of inquiry
into the Gladstone Harbour dredging project of late 2011. When dead fish, or those presenting with
cloudy eyes, bright red lesions and other signs of stress, were found in the harbour, all commercial
fishing was suspended for several weeks while a formal investigation was conducted.
Local commercial fishermen, some of whom also fell ill during this period, pointed the finger squarely at
dredging operations which had begun in May that year to service the $33 million Curtis Island Liquid
Natural Gas project, but the Gladstone Ports Corporation has repeatedly claimed "heavy flooding" was
largely responsible for the environmental disaster.

In late December, a former employee of the GPC-turned-whistleblower, John Broomhead, publicly
claimed that a damaged bund wall, built to contain dredge spoil, had leaked toxic pollutants into the
harbour. Broomhead, a former environmental manager for the GPC, further claimed that the leakage
followed design changes made to the wall to cut costs.

In making his most recent announcement, Hunt said the inquiry would be afforded "sweeping
investigative powers", and it is believed it will also examine possible links between the former federal and
state Labor governments and the GPC, and whether correct environmental procedures had been
followed. While engineering consultants BMT had told the GPC in November 2011 that the leaking wall
was a major factor in the collapse of the marine ecosystem, the GPC allegedly withheld this from the
public for more than two years, ostensibly adhering to its "heavy flooding theory".

Indeed, when Qweekend interviewed Seeney, it appeared the state government had also been kept in
the dark about the new evidence. "What really happened," Seeney said, "rather than what the alarmists
would have us believe, all of the evidence tells us a big element was the extreme wet season we had,
wherein a semi-enclosed body of water almost became fresh water for some time, and a large number of
fish that were artificially introduced into stocked impoundments nearby were washed into Gladstone
Harbour." Qweekend requested an interview with GPC executive officer Craig Doyle on several
occasions, but calls went unreturned.

What Hunt's commission of inquiry may uncover will be yet another chapter in the turbulent fortunes of
the reef, with environmentalists no doubt hoping it will sound the death knell for the Abbot Point dredging
project - or at least defer its commencement.
Back in the pristine waters that surround Lady Elliot Island, all is calm. It's part of a designated "green
zone" - a place where no fishing, and certainly no dredging, is allowed within a 30m offshore zone.
Seeney's "greenies", as he calls them, would no doubt love to see the entire reef designated as such, but
economic practicalities make this unrealistic.

Page92of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.In the meantime, a little girl, watched by her father, fits her mask and snorkel for her first glimpse of what
lies beneath her finned feet. She begins to swim, her mask flat on the surface, but almost immediately
stops. "Dad, Dad!" she yells, her own face full of natural wonder. "You've got to see this, you won't
believe what's under there, it's really, really" - she searches momentarily for the right word - "great!" And
the one thing everyone shares in this particular story is the hope that it always will be.

gcltre : Cultural Heritage | gcat : Political/General News | gcom : Society/Community/Work
austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

NS
RE
PUB News Ltd.
AN

Document COUMAI0020140131ea21000e6

Page93of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.