Time to push into Asia

Time to push into Asia

The Australian

HD
CR
WC 1,413 words
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

14 February 2014
00:00
theAustralian.com.au
NLAUSW
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

TD

DAVID Thodey has the Telstra mother-ship running in fine fettle, reliably producing circa $4 billion in free
cashflow.

The latter have just begun in earnest and it is, of course, a family affair with former Telstra boss Ziggy
Switkowski chairing the NBN Co and former Telstra executive JB Rousselot leading the negotiations with
Telstra's Tony Warren.

It is a good-natured affair with the ground rules already clear, even though Communications Minister
Malcolm Turnbull is yet to settle his policy once the government's review into the NBN, led by from
Michael Vertigan, reports mid-year.

The upside for Telstra working on Thodey's capital-lite approach is potentially meaningful, and includes
providing the engineering brains to the fibre rollout and collecting more rent to compensate for the use of
its copper and HFC network under the proposed multi-technology model. Thodey would like the
company to earn more than 20 per cent of its income from Asia, which is four times what it is now, and 58
per cent of revenues will disappear when Hong Kong mobile unit CSL disappears.

Analysts are sceptical, looking at Asia as a sideshow but Thodey is talking about the need to be there so
much he is setting a tough benchmark against which he will be measured.
The company will directly employ another 250 people in its Philippines call centre, in part to bring them in
house and also to establish a brand name in the country from which it can grow other services.

Thodey is building out points of presence in Asia to boost its network coverage but is also talking up joint
ventures, with a string of Asian carriers providing either intellectual property or, better still, engineering
expertise based around its own ability on mobile networks.

It's an evolutionary change, like the talks to form a joint venture with its Indonesian equivalent, but slowly
and surely it works in Asia.

The advantage he has is an absolute stranglehold on the local market, which will only get better through
the NBN negotiations.
In mobiles, the company has market-leading EBITDA margins of 39 per cent and has increased market
share to 50 per cent against 30 per cent at Optus and 16 per cent at Vodafone.

Telstra has added 739,000 mobile customers over the last half while Optus dropped 66,000 on a contract
loss.

Like Ian Narev at CBA, who also has an impressive market position, Thodey needs to keep hammering
the productivity message lest it be lost as the company continues to build profits.
Telstra was keen to point out that the $230 million in benefits in productivity savings recorded this half --
below the run rate, given there is a promised $1bn for the full year -- were explained by timing differences.
Indeed, the full year will tell the difference but it is hard to throw stones at a company improving returns
on capital by 1.7 per cent to 15.2 per cent, even with an albeit small fall in returns on equity to 26.8 per
cent.

Page299of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The half-a-cent increase in dividends can now be locked in for life, and CFO Andy Penn has made clear
capital management, when it is stepped up, will be by way of dividend hikes rather than big buybacks.
Given many treat Telstra like a car park, somewhere to leave your car while you do something fun,
Thodey can afford to celebrate his five years on the job with a more expansive push into his growth
targets in Asia and network applications and services.

Spilt Coke

NEXT week Coca-Cola Amatil will report a profit of about $510m for 2013, showing Joe Hockey was right
to say it could afford to invest in its SPC division.
The $480m SPC acquisition about 10 years ago was not outgoing boss Terry Davis's finest hour, based
on the belief he could grow sales by leveraging the Coke distribution network.

Yesterday he flagged another writedown on the division but the welcome $78m investment and promised
revamping of its marketing is at least a sign of hope.

Davis managed to get Victorian taxpayers to kick in some funds but in reality it is his mess to fix.
SPC is not the only troubled food company, when you consider Lion yesterday wrote down the value of
its dairy operation by $338.8m or 23 per cent to $1.2bn from the original value at $3.7bn. This was based
in part on the loss of 17 per cent of its milk sales, with Coles preferring Murray Goulburn.
The company said in a statement it was committed to its 9.9 per cent stake in Warrnambool Cheese and
Butter, which means Saputo won't get 100 per cent control quite yet. Now the Saputo offer for WCB has
closed talks can start with Lion over a commercial deal, which will allow Lion to sell its holding to Saputo.

ACCC versus Pfizer

THE ACCC case against drug giant Pfizer will be a welcome test to its section 46 abuse-of-market-power
armoury and revives a long-running debate in the anti-trust community on the interaction between patents
and the law.

Patents provide monopoly rights, which is an anathema to the anti-trust brigade; and Pfizer among others
have in Italy and elsewhere run foul of the law for their behaviour when patents are about to expire.

In this case, the ACCC is alleging it abused its market power in cholesterol drugs when its best-selling
Lipitor brand was coming off patent.

The complainant was a rival generic drug supplier, upset that it allegedly couldn't get its product on the
shelves. In a claim lodged in the Federal Court the regulator claimed prior to the loss of patent protection
the company approached chemists offering a deal on its own generic cholesterol product, provided they
took up 12 months' supply of the product.
Lipitor was one of the most popular cholesterol drugs, used by about one million Australians, with sales
of more than $700m.

The Pfizer matter is due to go the Federal Court for a directions hearing on March 18.

DJs' King Paul

ARISE your Royal Highness Paul Zahra of David Jones, the newly anointed tsar of high-end fashion
retailing who yesterday presided over a creditable 2.1 per cent rise in second-quarter sales to the due
applause of some key shareholders.

As expected, King Paul kept his options wide open on just how long he would run the same public
company he wanted to quit just four months ago.

King Paul did confide that "it's not about me" when pressed on whether the sales figures might persuade
him to stay.

At least he is right on that point, because there is a team at DJs doing a very good job.
Zahra has emerged all-powerful because a group of ginger shareholders has backed him against some
board members, who by all accounts were not supportive.

Those same directors of course showed poor judgment in buying shares ahead of a sales release, even
though the purchases were merely intended to show faith in the company after Zahra had spat the
dummy.

Page300of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The purchases were discussed by the whole board and ran past the company secretary and in-house
legal counsel, but they were delayed for over a week.

As has now magically appeared, in that week a proposal came in from Myer to talk about a nil-premium
merger. That much is now history.
Zahra is not committing to staying because he wants to know whether he can work with the new board.
That makes sense and, after all, he is now all-powerful and can basically do what he wants. The
shareholders who anointed the man, like Crispin Murray at BT, Dion Hershan at Goldman Sachs and
Perpetual, along with fellow travellers like Paul Xirades at Ausbil and Simon Marais at Allan Gray, who just
want decent takeover talks, of course must now wear either the pain or the gain that follows from their
actions.

This was their call.

Goldman Sachs is advising Myer on its proposed talks with DJs. King Paul did confide yesterday that
while sales were OK margins would fall due to heavy discounting. This year there is also a $25m profit fall
in the wake of the Amex deal but management has won and the DJs board is now in disarray.

CO tcoma : Telstra Corporation Ltd
IN
NS

i7902 : Telecommunications
c133 : Patents | c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | cgymtr :
Intellectual Property | cinprp : Industrial Property Rights (Patents/Trademarks) | ncat : Content Types |
nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB News Ltd.
AN

Document NLAUSW0020140213ea2d000p4

Page301of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.