Weekend in Sydney; Go off-track from the famous harbour and discover a city bursting with art spaces, cool bars and stunning beaches, writes...

SE
HD

WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

Saturday Magazine
Weekend in Sydney; Go off-track from the famous harbour and discover a city bursting with art
spaces, cool bars and stunning beaches, writes Ingrid K Williams
1,627 words
1 February 2014
The Irish Times
IRTI
31
English
(c) 2014, The Irish Times.

In ever-sunny, easygoing Sydney, don't let the famous attractions circling the handsome harbour
consume all your attention. Focus instead on the evolving neighbourhoods where art spaces are
cropping up beside train tracks, and innovative, chef-driven restaurants are opening at a rapid clip. If
you're searching for flash, look to Darling Harbour, where celebrity chefs like David Chang and Luke
Nguyen have opened outposts in the Star, a ritzy casino and entertainment complex that reopened in
2011 after a renovation costing about $800 million.

For more discreet indulgences, seek out the diminutive drinking dens that now pepper the city, the result
of a change in local liquor licensing laws that finally made business viable for small bars. Then when it's
time to dry out, the natural beauty of Australia's most populous city will be waiting along the sandy
beaches that lie just minutes from downtown. And don't worry, you're bound to pass a certain opera
house along the way.

TD

Friday

3pm

1 Modern Masters

Sydney is the pre-eminent place for art on the continent, in part because of the city's soaring
multi-storey art spaces. First hop over to the White Rabbit Gallery (free), which focuses exclusively on
contemporary Chinese art.

Rotating exhibitions draw from the gallery's vast collection, which includes stunning pieces like a life-size
wire motorbike by Shi Jindian, a pile of Ai Weiwei's sunflower seeds, and Tu Wei-Cheng's reproduction
of a chocolate shop stocked with tank- and bomb-shaped confections. Then head uptown to the Rocks
precinct where the renovated Museum of Contemporary Art reopened in 2012 with a new five-storey
wing.

Most interesting are the temporary exhibitions, like last year's captivating Anish Kapoor retrospective
and, now, a thought-provoking collection from Yoko Ono.

6pm

2 Duck, Duck, Dumplings

In a city flush with excellent Asian restaurants, one of the most exciting is Mr Wong, a two-level,
Chinese-inflected establishment hidden down a narrow lane. The restaurant's elegant interior features
wood-beam ceilings, bamboo-framed chairs and rows of plump ducks hanging in the kitchen window.
After seeing the fowl, it will be difficult to pass up the Chinese roasted duck (half order, AUD$34, €21) or
the Peking duck pancakes (half order, $45, €28), but save room for a platter of delicious steamed dim
sum ($32, €20).

8pm

1 Culture Carriage

Page73of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Near the ascendant Redfern area, a 19th- century industrial complex where railroad cars were once
constructed, is now a cavernous cultural hub called Carriageworks. Located at the old Eveleigh Railway
Yards, the venue hosts myriad contemporary arts events - everything from offbeat plays to large-scale
art exhibitions - in its multiple performance and exhibition spaces. Look out for an ambitious installation
by Christian Boltanski this month, and performances from the Samoan choreographer Lemi Ponifasio's
company of Maori dancers, MAU, in May.

11pm

3 Basement Bars

Finding Sydney's most atmospheric bars is no easy task. For example, to reach the Baxter Inn, you walk
down an unmarked alley, through an unkempt courtyard and down a flight of industrial-looking steps to a
nondescript basement door. When you're mumbling "this can't possibly be right", heave the heavy portal
open to enter an attractive, dimly lit saloon with vintage boxing posters on the walls and hundreds of fine
whiskeys lined up behind the bar. Another hip hangout squirrelled away from view is Frankie's Pizza.
The front half of the bar is a kitschy homage to a pizzeria, with plastic checked tablecloths and
Chianti-bottle candleholders, while the rear half houses a rollicking American dive bar circa 1987, with
pinball machines flashing and deep cuts from Guns N' Roses blasting. There are also tasty sausage
pizzas and craft beers from around the world, so plan for a very late - and fun - night.

Saturday

9am

4 Seaside Salutations

Greet the morning with a series of sun salutations in stupendously scenic environs. About a mile south
of the more famous Bondi Beach, along a breathtakingly beautiful waterfront walkway, is Bronte Beach,
a boomerang of golden sand nestled between wind-worn cliffs, a verdant public park and the Tasman
Sea. Here, in full view of the aquamarine water, Yoga by the Sea holds restorative hatha classes in a
beachfront studio ($23, €14). Sessions are also held at Bondi and Tamarama beaches, but finding your
centre amid the sea breezes and rhythmic crashing of waves in Bronte is hard to top. After class, cool
off with a dip in the sea or stake out a spot on the beach for a blissful, extended savasana.

12.30pm

5 Bronte Bites

From the beach, it's a short (albeit steep) uphill walk to Three Blue Ducks, a casual restaurant run by
three surfer friends. The vibe is laid-back - colourful murals painted across the walls, fresh air wafting
through open doors and windows - but the organic-focused menu reflects a fine-dining sensibility. During
the antipodean summer, try a bright salad from the ever-changing menu; a recent standout included
spicy duck, green mango and bean sprouts. Then scope out the backyard garden that most likely
supplied some of the produce that graced your plate. Lunch for two, about $50 (€31).

3pm

6 Neighbourhood Shops

Spend the afternoon strolling through Surry Hills, a tranquil neighbourhood where the tree-lined streets
are home to organic markets, sidewalk cafes and stylish shops. Give your wandering purpose with a
shopping tour beginning at Mushu, an eclectic boutique brimming with vintage-inspired clothing, delicate
jewellery and bright leather bags.

Then cross the road to the Standard Store, an airy shop stocked with printed sundresses, striped sailor
shirts and polished brogues for dapper ladies and gents. Afterward, head to Workshopped, a cool
housewares store packed with Australian-designed products, from copper pendant lamps to amber
glass jam jars.

7pm

7 Grill Guys

Stick around Surry Hills for supper at Porteño, a lively Argentine restaurant owned by chefs Ben Milgate
and Elvis Abrahanowicz. Dine on whole suckling pig and milk-fed lamb, roasted over an open flame for
eight hours, or try a steak cooked on the smoking parrilla.

Page74of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Should you find yourself waiting for a table, head upstairs to Gardel's Bar, where you can whet your
appetite with a Fernet Branca and cola - a popular tipple in Argentina. Dinner for two, about $100 (€63).

10pm

8 Little Darlings

After dinner, head north to Darlinghurst, a slightly scruffier area dotted with great watering holes. Start at
Red Lily, a tiny Indochina-inspired cocktail bar that serves creative concoctions like the Pham Fatale
(kaffir lime leaf vodka, lychee and ginger liqueurs, lemon, and coconut water, $18, (€11). Continue the
bar crawl at Shady Pines Saloon, a basement bar that could double as a taxidermist's lair.

It's easy to settle in here, shelling peanuts, listening to honky-tonk, petting the stuffed bull head and
drinking beer all night. But if you tire of the tongue-in-cheek Americana, head out for a nightcap at Hinky
Dinks.

At this '50s-themed bar, claim a seat on the banquettes and order one of the irresistibly cutesy cocktails,
like the Hinky Fizz: strawberry-and-prosecco sorbet, gin, St-Germain, peach bitters and grapefruit juice
served in a sorbet cup ($18, €11).

Sunday

10am
9 Bread and Brett

Start the morning mingling with the many neighbourhood pooches that accompany their owners outside
Bourke Street Bakery, a local institution that recently opened a fifth location. At one of the original cafe's
sidewalk tables, linger over a short black and a pear-and-berry muffin or sweet pistachio crème brûlée
tart. Then grab a loaf of sourdough and walk up the block to the Brett Whiteley Studio (free), the former
home and workplace of the prominent Australian artist. Now an exhibition space under the auspices of
the Art Gallery of New South Wales, the studio contains some of Whiteley's abstract and surrealist
pieces, as well as his well-preserved loft workshop, complete with unfinished works, reference books
and inspiration wall.

12.30pm

10 Harbourside Hideaway

Seaside beaches like Bondi can get crowded, so instead soak up the sun harbourside. One secluded
swathe of soft golden sand on the harbour's eastern edge is Camp Cove Beach, where clear turquoise
water laps the shore.

It's the sort of secret spot where Sydneysiders come for a picnic, a swim and a reminder of the fantastic
nature that lies so close to their concrete metropolis. To reach this hidden beach, take the ferry from
Circular Quay to Watsons Bay, a relaxing ride that also affords a fine view of - what else? - the white
wedges of the iconic Sydney Opera House backed by the steel arch of the Sydney Harbour Bridge.

Where to stay

The QT Sydney (49 Market Street; qtsydney.com.au) opened in September 2012 with 200 rooms spread
within two historic buildings: Gowings department store and heritage-listed State Theatre. Rooms
feature a chic, theatrical style, with bowler-hat lamps and oxblood skins draped on beds. The quirky
décor extends to the hotel's restaurant, cocktail bar, spa and barbershop. Doubles from $295 (€187).

The 2012 opening of the redesigned Park Hyatt Sydney (7 Hickson Road; sydney.park.hyatt.com)
ushered in a new era of luxury lodgings in the city. In the hotel's 155 rooms and suites, clean lines and
neutral tones prime the star attraction: balcony views of the city skyline, the Sydney Opera House, and
the sparkling harbour. Doubles from €1,060 (€674).

- New York TimesService

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gart : Art | gcoart : Contemporary Art | gcat : Political/General News | gent : Arts/Entertainment
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New
South Wales
Itronics Limited
Document IRTI000020140201ea210003f

Page75of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Page76of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.