Foreign residential investment to grow in the ACT

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Foreign residential investment to grow in the ACT

By MEREDITH CLISBY Domain Editor
521 words
14 September 2014
Canberra Times
CANBTZ
A003
English
(c) 2014 The Canberra Times

Developer Tony Pan from Oriental Companion Property is about to sell Canberra as a destination for
wealthy Asian buyers. Photo: MATT BEDFORD By MEREDITH CLISBY Domain Editor Foreign
residential investment to grow in the ACT
Foreign investment in residential real estate is expected to increase in the ACT as the territory
becomes more attractive to wealthy Asian buyers. A new report indicates there is increasing interest in
the capital shown by residents of China and Hong Kong. Property experts say the territory is looking
more appealing to buyers as Sydney and Melbourne become more expensive. The McGrath Report for
2014 notes while Chinese buyers are not big players in the Canberra market as yet, a survey conducted
by HSBC

indicates interest in the sector is growing. The survey, conducted earlier this year, asked affluent Asian
buyers which Australian cities they would consider to invest in property over the next 12 months. About
34 per cent of Chinese buyers and 31 per cent of Hong Kong buyers indicated they would buy in the
territory over all other states and territories. Australian Property Institute ACT president Paul Powderly
said there had been about $100 million in foreign investment in residential real estate in the past eight
months for sites in Harrison, Campbell and Lawson.
He said this money was predominately coming from China, Malaysia and Singapore. Mr Powderly said
this was significantly in excess of previous years where the amount of foreign investment coming into
residential real estate was too little to bother monitoring. Real Estate Institute of the ACT spokesman
Craig Bright said he had noticed an increasing interest in the territory's property market by foreign
buyers but just for large development sites. "I'm not sure that's translated to established properties as yet
but there's more activity than there was 18 months ago," he said. Mr Bright said Canberra

was seen as an affordable city compared with Sydney and Melbourne and had started to attract
investment again. Data from the Foreign Investment Review Board, which approves all foreign
purchases of residential real estate, shows that while small, the numbers of foreign buyers in the ACT
is increasing. There were 31 approvals for proposed investment in real estate in the 2009/10 financial
year, 86 in 2010/11 and 123 approvals in the 2012/13 financial year. Developer Tony Pan from Oriental
Companion Property is about to sell Canberra as a destination for wealthy Asian buyers when
he markets his property developments in Shanghai and Beijing. Mr Pan, who has 140 dwelling sites in
Lawson, aims to sell about 30 per cent of his stock to overseas buyers. He will market Canberra as a
destination for parents to send children for university study, which is how the ANU graduate came to live
in the ACT. "People know that Australia is a good place to study but they don't know Canberra very well
yet," Mr Pan said. "I'm looking at the whole picture - if we get more investment here the whole
community will benefit."

RF
IN

RE

60278788
irreal : Residential Real Estate | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ireest :
Real Estate
austr : Australia | china : China | auscap : Australian Capital Territory | canbrr : Canberra | sydney :
Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz :

Page120of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz :
Eastern Asia | nswals : New South Wales
PUB Federal Capital Press of Australia Pty Ltd
AN

Document CANBTZ0020140913ea9e0002e

Page121of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.