Asians buy up big on Brisbane unit tours

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Asians buy up big on Brisbane unit tours

CHARLOTTE DURUT
247 words
31 May 2014
The Courier-Mail
COUMAI
CourierMail
21
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

BUSLOADS of Asian investors are putting apartment buying on their southeast Queensland tour
itineraries, snapping up million of dollars worth of property in each hit.
A group of 50 Taiwanese real estate agents and investors spent more than $10 million on
off-the-plan apartments at Belise in Bowen Hills this month after spending an hour in the display
centre between tourist attractions.

This followed a similar visit of 50 investors in July last year, where $20 million was spent.
The visit, organised by Acuity Property Solutions, resulted from growing interest in the Australian
market, with Brisbane emerging as a hot-spot for investors.
Acuity managing director Michael Wilkins said interest in the local market from Chinese, Taiwanese
and Korean buyers had increased significantly in the past year and would continue if exchange rates
remained favourable to international investors.

“Brisbane is a clear winner for international investors,” he said. “I’m increasingly facilitating requests
to bring groups to Brisbane to tour investment opportunities in our booming new apartment market.”
LJ Hooker New Farm principal Brett Greensill said Asian investors were flocking to buy apartments
in Bowen Hills, Fortitude Valley, Herston and Newstead.

“The 4006 postcode is red-hot,” he said.
“These suburbs are inner-city, high-density areas with a commercial, retail and residential mix.”Mr
Greensill said Asian investors were often cash buyers looking for well-constructed apartments priced
between $700,000 and $1 million.

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document COUMAI0020140530ea5v000e0

Page241of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.