Again, Poor Preparations, Mediocrity Underscore Nigeria's Poor Outing

HD
BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Again, Poor Preparations, Mediocrity Underscore Nigeria's Poor Outing

by Eno-Abasi Sunday
3,325 words
15 August 2014
20:01
All Africa
AFNWS
English
(c) 2014 AllAfrica, All Rights Reserved

Aug 15, 2014 (The Guardian/All Africa Global Media via COMTEX) -- Nigeria finished eight at the just
concluded 20th Commonwealth Games in Glasgow, Scotland, winning a total of 36 medals. ENO-ABASI
SUNDAY, who covered the multi-sports fiesta, writes on the positive side and the oddities that thrived in
the Team Nigeria camp.

AUSTRALIAN songstress, Kylie Minogue, penultimate Sunday, delivered a stunning performance to bring
the 20th Commonwealth Games, which the head of the Commonwealth, Queen Elizabeth of England had
opened on July 23 in Glasgow, Scotland, to a close.

During the spectacular performance, which was characterised by a seven-song set-list, a costume
change, naked dancing men and a peacock headdress, all termed "a typical Glasgow night out," the pop
star kept her 40,000 strong audience in Glasgow's Hampden Park, and several others on Twitter quite
busy.

From her collection, Minogue reeled out seven of her top hits - including Spinning Around, Into The Blue,
Love At First Sight, All The Lovers, Step Back In Time, Beautiful and Can't Get You Out Of My Head.

The Commonwealth Games, a multi-sports fiesta, in which former British colonies joust for prized
diadems in about 20 sporting disciplines, is one of the most colourful and prestigious sports festival in the
world, second only to the Olympic Games.

This year's edition, the largest multi-sport event ever held in Scotland, involved athletes from 71 nations
and territories, competing in 18 different sports, outranking the 1970 and 1986 versions.

To a large extent, the games brought about notable successes for home nations of the United Kingdom,
especially England Wales and hosts Scotland, as they all recorded their largest ever gold and overall
medals haul.

England finished top of the medal table for the first time since the 1986 edition that was also held in
Scotland. Kiribati also won its first ever medal, a gold, in the 105 kg men's weightlifting segment. Kiribati
is a group of islands encircled by the Pacific Ocean, with a population of a little over 100,000. Scientists
believe that the rising sea could submerge the beautiful, but disappearing Kiribati, within the next 30
years.

Back in 2004, Scotland was the first country to consider hosting the 2014 Games. Scottish cities were
invited by the Commonwealth Games Council for Scotland (CGCS), to make a bid. In March 2006, when
the bidding process began, the Glasgow Bid team presented its case to the Commonwealth Games
Federation (CGF) at the 2006 edition held in Melbourne, Australia, along with the other confirmed
candidate cities; which included Nigerian capital, Abuja and Canada's Halifax.

The first voting delegates arrived in Glasgow on October 2006, where they inspected the city's existing
and proposed facilities. Barely four months later, Glasgow announced, on 16 January 2007, the 17 sports
to be included, should its bid becomes successful.

Page42of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Halifax's withdrawal of its bid on March 8, 2007, following the withdrawal of funding from its municipal
government, left Abuja and Glasgow as the remaining bidders. For a while, Abuja was seen as a likely
favourite, due to the basis of its campaign that an African nation had never hosted the Games.

The Commonwealth Games Evaluation Commission concluded that: "Glasgow has shown it has the
ability to stage the 2014 Commonwealth Games to a standard, which would continue to enhance the
image and prestige of the Games."

The final decision was taken in Colombo, Sri Lanka on November 9, 2007 at the Commonwealth Games
Federation General Assembly, attended by all 71 Commonwealth member associations. After the
Glasgow and Nigerian teams, led by Louise Martin and former Head of State, Gen. Yakubu Gowon (rtd)
respectively, had made their presentations, Glasgow eventually won.

While Nigeria's poster girl, Blessing Okagbare became the first person to win both the 100 and 200
metres race, fastest man in the world, Jamaica's Usain Bolt, earned his first Commonwealth gold medal,
when he led his country's team to outclass others, in the 4X100 metres race, that saw Nigerian flag
bearers sliding woefully to the sixth place.

A last ditch push by the para-athletes, helped Team Nigeria to finish 8th, with a total of 36 medals. The
country rose to the 8th position barely four days before the end of the games.

Team Nigeria's medals were only three shy of the 39 that South Africa amassed, to finish as Africa's
leading light, in the 7th place, with 13 gold, 10 silver and 16 bronze medals.

England, Australia, Canada and hosts, Scotland, finished first, second, third and fourth respectively.
Scotland recorded a haul of 19 gold medals and a best-ever tally of 53 medals.

A breakdown of Nigeria's medals haul in Glasgow, which is largely the handiwork of the female athletes,
consisted of 11 gold, 11 silver and 14 bronze medals. That no male athlete earned a gold medal in any
of the events stills remain a talking point till today.

Two days to the end of the games, Nigeria was placed 11th, but amazing last minute displays by the
athletes, changed the tide. The resurgence, led by para-athletes, gave the country nine additional medals
-- four gold and five silver.

At the frontline, on that windy Saturday night, were Loveline Obiji, who competed in the women's
heavyweight category, and Esther Oyema (women's lightweight). Both set world records respectively,
winning gold medals in their various events.

While Oyema lifted 126kg to set a new world record; while 23-year-old Obiji recorded a best lift of 144.0kg
to set a record in her weight category, Bose Omolayo finished second behind Obiji, ahead of third-placed
Kenya's Joyce Wambui Njuguna.
Abdulazeez Ibrahim also won gold in the men's heavyweight Group A, lifting a total weight of 197.0kg, to
overcome opponents from India and Malaysia.

In the men's lightweight Group A category, 26-year-old Paul Kehinde emerged victorious ahead of
compatriot, Rolland Ezuruike, who settled for a silver medal.

An Okagbare inspired quartet held their nerves to claim silver in the 4x400m event in a time of 3:24.71 at
the Hampden Park Stadium. Jamaica won the race with a new record of 3:23.82 and England were third
in 3:27.24 seconds.

Interestingly, only a few athletes, who won medals in Delhi, repeated the feat in Glasgow. Additionally,
while some like Odunayo Adekuoroye and Maryam Usman improved on their Delhi performance, others
like former team captain, Sinivie Boltic fumbled. He got a bronze this time, unlike the gold he won in
India. Tosin Oke, who won a gold medal in Delhi, settled for silver in the triple jump event in Glasgow.
Blessing Oborodudu, who won silver in Delhi, settled for a bronze medal this time.
Nigeria's first gold medal came through weightlifter Chika Amalaha, in the 53-kilogram competition on
Friday, July 25, barely 48 hours after the games got underway. But after her A and B samples contained
prohibited diuretics- Amiloride and masking agent-Hydrochlorothiazide, she was disqualified and stripped
of the medal for violating doping rules. Her medal was awarded to Dika Toua from Papua New Guinea.

If Amalaha's tainted feat failed to announce the gradual coming of age of the next generation of
home-grown Nigerian athletes, that of 18-year-old Ese Brume did just that. Same applies to the feats
recorded by Adekuoroye, Aminat Adeniyi and Adesanmi Oluwatoyin, who all won gold medals in their
events.

Page43of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Nigeria's poster girl, in no uncertain terms, showed that she was now in a class of her own with as she
topped the chart with her two gold and silver medals to show for her efforts.

The sorest point of Nigeria's participation remains the dope test, which teenage lifter Amalaha failed.
Sadly, since the incidence occurred, the teenager has been at the centre of a vitriolic harangue by, even,
those who might have been the unseen hands behind the drug saga.

Sports Minister and Chairman of the National Sports Commission (NSC), Mr. Tammy Danagogo was
clearly perturbed. However, not many were convinced that the minister's fury would find expression in the
number of heads likely to roll over the scandal.

"My heart bleeds for this 16-year-old schoolgirl," the Minister fumed. "She looks too innocent to commit
such an offence. She is naive. We must get to the root of this. The coaches and our anti-doping officials
have questions to answer. Why didn't they do their jobs before coming here to disgrace Nigeria."

Informed that the teenager could not have ingested just anything to shed weight all on her own without
the active connivance of her coach, medical and sundry personnel, the minister promised to carry out an
elaborate investigation.

He said: "The fact that she is naive; the fact that those around her did not monitor her to ensure that she
does the right thing, is so painful to me. We won't interfere in whatever punishment that would be meted
out on her by relevant bodies, but the coaching crew and our own doping officials would be investigated
to determine their own level of involvement. Her coach has denied knowledge of whatever she took, but I
am still of the opinion that our own anti-doping department in the Sports Ministry should have spotted this
before we get to this point of embarrassing ourselves internationally. We will punish any coach, ministry
official found to be involved in this to serve as a deterrent to others. We want a situation where, if we win
one gold, the world should be convinced that we won on merit."
It is common knowledge that all but one athlete that won a gold medal for Nigeria at the games ply their
trade in Nigeria. This scenario makes it worrisome to comprehend a situation where, with over 170
million Nigerians, millions of naira was deployed to facilitate the change of nationality for some
Americans athletes, who were said to have been approached by the Solomon Ogba-led Athletics
Federation of Nigeria (AFN), to switch allegiance to Nigeria.

Curiously, some of the athletes, who never won anything tangible for America, were at a point, drug
cheats.

While the ex-internationals accuse Ogba and his team of suffering from lack of positive initiatives and
creative ways of bailing the country out of the woods, the Delta State-born politician recently fired back,
claiming that, "if not for anything, the coming of these athletes has changed the usual lacklustre attitude
of some of our athletes, who believe they can always make the team." Ogba added, "now the competition
has become stiffer and this development would make everyone sit up and develop more seriousness in
training and preparation in subsequent competitions. The athletes might not be the best in the world, but
they cannot be denied an opportunity to compete for a country like Nigeria, just like our athletes do for
other countries. There is something that they have seen in Nigeria that most of us might not be seeing."

A summary of the new Nigerian athletes' scorecard shows that one of them, Amaju Mark Jelks, came 5th
in the 100m finals with a time of 10.17seconds, which, according to Chairman of the AFN Technical
Committee, Captain Omatseye Nesiama, should automatically qualify him for next year's world
championships in China.

The duo of Tuoyo Mozavous Edwards and Dominique Duncan got to the semifinals of the men's 100m
and women's 200m respectively. Ogba added: "They returned better time than any of our home-based
athletes in the same events and we should commend their efforts instead of castigating them back
home."

The AFN president also wants Nigerians to clap their hands for Robert Simmons, who could not show
class in the men's 400m event due to injury because "he helped the 4x400m team to the finals of the
event and that is commendable."

He said: "What I want people to understand is that if our home-based athletes prove themselves better
than the foreign ones, we take them to international competitions. If not, we would not have "risked" using
junior athletes in a competition of this magnitude. The use of these foreign-based athletes for now is a
stop-gap, pending when the AFN development programme churns out more elite athletes and which
should not be too far any longer, with the likes of Ese Brume, Divine Oduduru and Akerele Omeiza
already coming into the elite pack."

Page44of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.While Ogba sees AFN's recruitment of the foreign athletes as a step in the right direction, especially in the
short-term, Sports Minister Danagogo seems to see a different picture altogether.

"It was in the papers that I knew about foreign coaches and foreign athletes particularly in the AFN. The
AFN President, Solomon Ogba told me that the coach was hired before I arrived. I told him of my
preference for local coaches, which we will train to match their foreign counterparts.

"On the issue of foreign athletes, they told me that they (athletes) were Nigerians resident abroad. I had
not seen them or heard of their names until they went for their foreign camping. However, one of the girls
that did long jump, her name was purely American, and I asked the Director General of the NSC, Gbenga
Elegbeleye, 'are you sure this is a Nigerian?' The DG responded by saying he also saw one Onuoha and
Okoro competing for England. But the truth is that, it is a bit confusing because they are blacks though
with foreign accent. I am also aware that there is the possibility that some of them have either Nigerian
parent. It is left for us to investigate well. Whereas, some of them may be Nigerians, I know that all of
them are not.

"Having said that, I have to add that our salvation does not lie in these imports. And that is the lesson we
are learning here (in Glasgow). All those that have given us medals are either local breeds or local breeds
that have gotten further exposure. So, what I think this episode re-emphasises is that, there is the need
for us to spend more on our local talents because it is common knowledge that if these athletes were the
best in America, their country would never leave them to come and compete for Nigeria because America
can pay them far better than we can. So, it is most likely that they are not the best wherever they were,
that is why they are competing for us."

Countries begin skeletal preparations for international sports competition including the Commonwealth
games long before the events get underway. These preparations include seeking out and grooming
athletes they intend to unleash on the rest of the world; acquisition of kits and equipment, implementing
training programmes and ensuring that timelines are met.

The recently concluded games, however, for the umpteenth time, provided an opportunity for Nigerians to
behold the blunders that their sports administrators are adept at, due to their inability to learn from past
mistakes and work ahead of time. High-level mediocrity and clumsy administrative procedures manifested
in the persistent disputes over allowances that rocked most African sporting teams, even at the FIFA
World Cup.

Secondly, the Nigeria's shooting team also departed for the games without their firearms, due to the
officials' failure to apply for and get relevant approvals on time. When they were ready to do so, the then
Inspector General of Police, M. D. Abubakar, was out of town and could not give authorization.

Nigeria's para-athletes, for some strange reasons, departed Nigeria 24 hours to the commencement of
the games. Miraculously, they still recorded a splendid outing. Their late departure was blamed largely on
the challenges the federation encountered in the build-up to the games, principal among which was the
late release of funds.

Another blunder recorded within the period under review was Team Nigeria's inability to take delivery of
complete official kits for the games until about 72 hours to the end of the sports fiesta. Even when the
delivery was made, it was reliably gathered that not everything was supplied.

Consequently, some Nigerian athletes ended up competing in a range of kits made by Adidas, Nike,
Mizuno and sundry brands, which they personally owned or used in past championships. In fact, some
weightlifters wore the recognisable green and white kits while others were in diverse colours, ranging
from blue to black and brilliant green.

Danagogo told The Guardian: "What happened regarding the kits is certainly not excusable. Order for the
purchase of the kits had been made before I assumed office as Sports Minister. I only came to see the
bills I had to pay, and you know how dicey it is to handle situations like that when it is barely one month to
the competition.
"But between the Austrian firm, which produced the kits and their Nigeria representatives, something
went wrong and the firm was being paid in bits. This unfortunate and inexcusable development led to the
delay of the production and delivery of the kits, which were to come in three sets- the one for the opening
ceremony, the sports-specific kits and the general kits. Of all of these, only the general kits that were
delayed. So, there was no reason for our athletes to compete in unofficial kits.

On the Nigerian shooting team leaving Nigeria without their firearms, he said: "It was the Tuesday that I
was leaving for Glasgow that I learnt that the arms that the team was supposed to make use of had not
been approved by the Inspector General of Police. It was after this was brought to my notice that I started

Page45of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.making calls on how the situation could be remedied. In fact, it was after I got here that the Director
General of the Department of State Services informed me that he could have been of assistance."

Speaking specifically on the level of organisation of the Games, Danagogo said: "The level of
organisation of this Commonwealth Games, is also showing us what to do as we prepare for our National
Sports Festival, and how to prepare as we try to bid for one of these games in the very near future. What
has happened here is a display of excellence in sports as well as in organisation of events of this nature."

Asked for his insights on how the country can make better impact in subsequent international sporting
events, President of Nigeria Wrestling Federation (NWF) and Olympic gold medalist, Daniel Igali said, a
lot must change in the scheme of things in order for sports to move forward in the country.
Igali, who won a gold medal in the Men's 74 kg freestyle wrestling at the 2002 Commonwealth Games in
Manchester, England, a gold medal in the men's 69 kg freestyle wrestling at the Sydney, Australia
Olympic Games, said funds must, as a matter of necessity, be made available to respective sports
federations, if they must compete well with their peers in other limes.

His words: "India has a $3m vote for wrestling alone. We do not have that. The Canadian women
wrestling team has a $1.5m budget and the Nigerian wrestling team does not have a budget. We move
from tournament to tournament. So, the non-availability of funds essentially means that you cannot plan,
and that needs to change. If you look at our wrestlers, it is not that we are lagging behind too much. But
we need to plan and we also need the exposure. If we are to make any serious impact, for instance, at an
Olympic Games coming up in two years, we need to be out of the country training for at least six months."

NS

RE

gspo : Sports/Recreation | goly : Olympics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E
Exclusion Filter | nrgn : Routine General News
nigea : Nigeria | scot : Scotland | abuja : Abuja | africaz : Africa | austr : Australia | cana : Canada | china :
China | glasg : Glasgow | kenya : Kenya | uk : United Kingdom | delhi : Delhi | india : India | apacz : Asia
Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz
: Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | eafrz : East Africa | easiaz : Eastern Asia
| eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | indsubz : Indian Subcontinent | namz : North America
| sasiaz : Southern Asia | wafrz : West Africa | weurz : Western Europe
acquisition

IPD
PUB All Africa Global Media
AN

Document AFNWS00020140815ea8f000um

Page46of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.