FOREIGN INVESTORS EYE UP NZ

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

FOREIGN INVESTORS EYE UP NZ

1,374 words
10 August 2014
Sunday Star-Times
SUNSTT
20
English
© 2014 Fairfax New Zealand Limited. All Rights Reserved.

Fund managers, new media companies and a slew of foreign investors are set to become key players
in New Zealand's commercial property market, reports Catherine Harris .

--------------------

NEW ZEALAND has become one of the top Asia-Pacific destinations for commercial property
investors as they search globally for better yields, an expert says.
In a seminar outlining property trends in Australia and New Zealand, JLL's New Zealand research
head Justin Kean said overseas investors had got to know Australia in the last investment cycle and
were now comfortable about venturing across the Tasman.

"We're seeing capital come in from Canada, Switzerland, Germany, Singapore and indeed some
Chinese investors who are all currently active in the New Zealand market. No Australians, more or
less, which is interesting. But also very little else from other Asia. But the fact that the Canadians and
Swiss will come down to New Zealand indicates there is a real genuine reach and indeed a search for
yield."

Asked whether Middle Eastern investors would become more prominent here, Kean said it was less
likely than in Australia because Middle Eastern money tended to take the form of sovereign wealth
funds. "They are after trophy assets, of which there's only a limited amount in this country."
He pointed to the $57m sale of 125 Queen St, an 18,000 square metre office building which had been
owned by a sovereign wealth fund but largely vacant for the last five years.

"The owner couldn't get around to sorting it out. It also couldn't get around to selling it because it was
not an significant enough asset to warrant their time. The new owner will hopefully refurbish and
reinvigorate it and it will be a really good thing for Queen St.

"Unlisted funds will come here because they'll be savvy and will look for value-add opportunities, but for
a lot of those larger sovereign wealth [funds], it's about getting the money away . . . and there's bigger
fish to fry than assets in New Zealand, I'd suggest."

However, his Australian counterpart, Dr David Rees, said there was quite a lot of interest from the
Middle East in Australia, although not as much activity as that interest would suggest. About 70 per
cent of the money from sovereign wealth funds was in Europe and 10 per cent in Australia, some
through Singapore.
Rees and Kean also outlined which industries they thought would drive demand for commercial
property in future.

New media businesses and fund management companies were Kean's pick. In 2004, funds under
management had been $56 billion generating a revenue for the managers of around $840 million.

Today, thanks to KiwiSaver, there were about $93b of funds under management generating $1.4b in
revenue, and by 2021 they would grow to $132b, earning $2b. Kean said managers' needs would grow:
fund managers would necessarily employ as many people as their growth suggested.

Page80of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."There is capacity for employment growth in that sector, demand growth and trust me, these guys like
to be in the best buildings in town".

Another growth area was new media, the likes of Xero and Trade Me.

"They like large footprints, they like 2000sqm floor plates, they like flexible space - cool, funky, fussball
in the lunch room-type space.

"You only need to look out the window to see the kind of building that new media companies and tech
companies will demand and Wellington's prime for the adoption of space for these kind of companies.
"The question is, can the property market as a whole supply it?"

In Auckland, there was a significant amount of new supply about to arrive which was campus- style,
Kean said.

"It's slightly outside of the CBD and its large floorplates and it's exactly the kind of space that these
occupiers tend to take. I think that you can provide it here in Wellington as well, but the answer is not so
much a cookie-cutter solution, it's about renovating existing space to meet the demands and needs of
these companies."
On the other hand, the businesses whose property needs were shrinking included the insurance and
business services sector. "These are two sectors which have come to terms with their real estate and
are working quite efficiently to reduce their footprint," said Kean.

One trend that Kean felt was likely to cross the Tasman was the increasing use of rent-free incentives
by institutional owners.

Public and private institutions loved guaranteed growth and inflation-adjusted rent reviews and they
were increasingly offering longer rent-free periods on leases in Sydney and Melbourne.

"They are very clever at using incentives as financial mechanisms," he said.

A 10-year lease on a prime building in Australia was now offering on average 32 months rent-free, as
an incentive for taking a longer lease.

"This is significantly larger than what you'd see in most New Zealand markets but don't be surprised if
you start to see this," Kean said.
There were 45 A-Grade commercial buildings in New Zealand, and four premium buildings compared
to Sydney's 14, but 80 per cent of Sydney's stock was owned by financial institutions.

"So that institutional model of ownership is likely to creep into New Zealand over the medium to
long-term," he said.
Capital flows into Australia and New Zealand's commercial property markets are likely to break
records this year, with a quarter of the deals going to foreign buyers.
Rees said property transactions in Australia were at an all-time high.

"There's more investment because there is more confidence but importantly . . . we're seeing a
significant portfolio shift by global investors, by sovereign wealth funds towards real estate."
Rees said that the rise of Australia's pension industry had seen local investors buy back a lot of
properties from overseas investors who bought up big in the 1990s.
Ten per cent of many funds was allocated to real estate.

Now the cycle had turned again and foreign investors were moving back into Australia "big-time" and
he was expecting 2014 to be a record breaker for property transactions.

Singapore was the biggest investor in Australia, accounting for 31 per cent of all foreign capital, and 23
per cent was from the rest of Asia although China was not yet a big player, followed by the US and
Canada.

Kean said 2014 was also shaping up to be a good one in New Zealand.
"We're starting to see a significant growth in the amount of transactions undertaken, and these are
transactions in the $5m-plus space in the New Zealand market."

Page81of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.At least half of the capital invested this year would be foreign investment, with office buildings being the
key target. Kean said in both countries, investors tended to go to the biggest cities initially but
eventually, they would move out to other cities.

"A lot of these investors are either transacting in Auckland today or can't find suitable stock or can't
justify coming to New Zealand for the kind of yields that they have to pay to get into the Auckland
market. Where will they go next?

"They'll come down here to Wellington and they'll scratch around in Christchurch.

"But I'd argue Wellington is the prime target for a lot of this investment as we head into 2014-15."
Kean said one major point of difference between New Zealand's commercial property market and
Australia's was the dominance of commodity sectors.

"The Brisbane and Perth markets which correspond very highly with the performance of the commodity
story . . . they're highly connected because the companies which take in the hard commodities - iron
ore, coal, bauxite - are large users of office space."
New Zealand's commodity story was dairy-related.
"And the largest company involved in the dairy industry in New Zealand, in fact a company which
controls something like 90 per cent of the marginal export activity of dairy across the world, occupies
about 20,000sqm of office space across the country.
"That company could quadruple in size and it still wouldn't have a significant impact on New Zealand
office markets.

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
nz : New Zealand | austr : Australia | auckl : Auckland | sydney : Sydney | well : Wellington | apacz :
Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South Wales
Fairfax New Zealand Limited
Document SUNSTT0020140809ea8a00035

Page82of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.