Renewed global tensions send share prices into losing streak

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business - Trading Room
Renewed global tensions send share prices into losing streak

Sally Rose
547 words
9 August 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
10
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

After tumbling 1.3 per cent on Friday the Australian equity market has erased 3.6 per cent over the
past six sessions, shedding $40.5 billion in value. Global markets were rattled on Friday as US
President Barack Obama authorised air strikes on Iraq.

The S&P/ASX 200 Index lost 2.2 per cent to 5435.3 points, in what was the worst week for the local
sharemarket since March.

The last time the market recorded a six-day losing streak was in early December, just before the US
Federal Reserve started reducing its stimulus.

If the bourse falls for a seventh consecutive session on Monday it will be the market's longest losing
streak since an eight-day run of falls more than four years ago that ended on July 2, 2010.

"News of US-ordered air strikes on Iraq just added to the geopolitical risks, coming from Ukraine and
Gaza, that have seen volatility return to the market as investors awaken from their complacency,"
Quest Asset Partners portfolio manager Michael Evans said.

In domestic news, the Reserve Bank elected on Tuesday to keep the official cash rate at its record
low 2.5 per cent for the 12th month in a row. The decision was widely expected, but with the release
of jobs numbers for July on Thursday showing unemployment at a 12-year high of 6.4 per cent, more
economists are pricing in another interest rate cut later this year.

The big four bank stocks, which have enjoyed a two-year rally amid record low interest rates, all
moved at least 3 per cent lower over the week. Citing concern about credit growth amid high
unemployment, Bell Potter strategist Charlie Aitken advised clients on Friday to sell the big banks
and reinvest in cheaper stocks.

Among other industrial blue-chip stocks, Telstra fell 0.9 per cent to $5.39 over the week. In retail
Woolworths lost 2.2 per cent to $35.67 and Wesfarmers, owner of Coles, shed 2 per cent to $42.44.
The company reporting season delivered mixed results. On Friday, real estate website operator REA
Group dropped 8.7 per cent to $42.78 despite meeting expectations with a 37 per cent surge in
underlying net profit.

"With the market's price-to-earnings ratio above average, expectations for results season are high.
Meeting guidance is unlikely to be enough to boost stock prices and the focus will really be on
looking for stronger outlook statements," Mr Evans said.

A reporting season highlight was Rio Tinto.
Australia's biggest exporter of iron ore climbed 1.6 per cent over the week to $66.43 with investors
delighted at the prospect of bigger capital returns early next year.

Page95of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.BHP Billiton fell 1.7 per cent over the week to $37.74. The resources giant is widely tipped to meet
guidance when it reports later in the month.
The spot price for iron ore, delivered in Beijing, rose four sessions in a row to $96. However, when
the ASX closed on Friday, futures traders in China were tipping a fall that would wipe out the past
week's gains.

CO
NS

RE

PUB
AN

fed : Federal Reserve Board
m11 : Equity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter
austr : Australia | iraq : Iraq | namz : North America | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz
: Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | gulfstz : Persian Gulf Region |
meastz : Middle East | wasiaz : Western Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020140808ea890003y

Page96of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.