Stokes shares his recipe for success

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Feature
Stokes shares his recipe for success

Damon Kitney
353 words
31 May 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
34
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

It spoke volumes of the importance that Ryan Stokes places on Australia’s relationship with China
that the billionaire scion spent the entire day at Crown in Melbourne yesterday for the second
Australia in China’s Century Conference.

And when his turn came to speak, while he may not have grabbed the headlines his father did two
years earlier by saying he was “repulsed’’ by seeing foreign troops being trained on Australian soil
because of how it would be viewed in China, Stokes Jr still had a powerful message.

Beyond resources and energy, he said four key areas of trade deserved Australia’s focus in the
China relationship: food, education, tourism and technology.
He said Australia must actively pursue export opportunities and welcome Chinese investment in
Australia’s food sector, as well as improving the visa system to make it easier and cheaper for
Chinese students to study in Australia.
The Stokes family’s Seven Group Holdings and its private company Australian Capital Equity are
together one of the largest Australian investors in China. The other is James Packer’s Crown
Resorts.
Seven Group’s WesTrac operation sells Caterpillarmining equipment and vehicles in northeast
China and has a stake in the Agricultural Bank of China.

ACE for more than a decade has partnered with the Shanghai Media Group to provide a mobile TV
service on buses. Today, there are more than 10,000 buses broadcasting the service to 10 million
people in Shanghai each day.

Stokes was clear yesterday that foundational friendships were crucial to the group’s success in
China, as was Packer.

“We never set out to teach, but rather, to share, learn and contribute,’’ he said.

Now Stokes is flagging aspirations for Seven Media Group to pursue new media opportunities in
China and hinted that China’s energy demands could also present expansion options in gas.
Many Australian businesses are still struggling to find their feet in China after years of trying.They
would do well to heed the comments of Stokes and Packer yesterday about the recipe for success.

CO
IN

NS

tvaus : Seven Group Holdings Ltd. | crncas : Crown Resorts Limited
i97411 : Broadcasting | i9741102 : Television Broadcasting | i97912 : Gambling Industries | ilea :
Leisure/Arts/Hospitality | imed : Media/Entertainment
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News

Page228of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

PUB
AN

austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140530ea5v0008q

Page229of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.