HOW DOES CLIVE SOLVEA PROBLEM LIKE JACQUI ?

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
HOW DOES CLIVE SOLVEA PROBLEM LIKE JACQUI ?

Daniel Meers
1,101 words
23 August 2014
Courier Mail
COUMAI
CourierMail
53
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

INSIGHT TASMANIAN DEVIL Rogue PUP senator Jacqui Lambie is turning into a loose cannon for
her party leader Clive Palmer with statements so outrageous even he would think twice about
repeating, writes Daniel Meers CLIVE Palmer hung up on a radio interviewer in Perth this week. He
wasn’t asked about allegations that he siphoned $12 million from a Chinese government-owned
company to pay for his election campaign.

It wasn’t even intense pressure over his brain snap, on the ABC, that left the leader of the Palmer
United Party so speechless all he could come up with was “Goodbye’’.

In fact, the interview-ending question wasn’t even about him. All it took was two words; Jacqui
Lambie.

His potty-mouthed Tasmanian senator who wants a wealthy, well-hung man and believes Australia
should buy missiles to fire at the Chinese when they come to invade us and turn our grandchildren
into slaves.

The above paragraph would be funny, if Ms Lambie didn’t hold the balance of power in Australia.

Prime Minister Tony Abbott cannot get any legislation passed without the support of Ms Lambie and
Mr Palmer’s Palmer United Party (PUP).

Put simply, the chief dog has bought a PUP that has a bigger bite than himself. And he doesn’t know
what to do with her.

MPs from both sides of politics believe she is a risk of fleeing the kennel and equally could be
damaging to Mr Palmer if she is not put on a tight leash.

The single mother of two decided to join PUP because she didn’t have enough money to run as an
independent.

Ms Lambie is good with other people’s money. She even got the defence force to pay for a breast
reduction as part of compensation she claimed from back problems sustained while working in the
Defence Force for over a decade.
The former military truck driver’s decision to use the billionaire mining magnate’s money to run for
Parliament worked. She was elected with just 6.6 per cent of the vote and now earns about $200,000
a year for the next six years.

Her foray into public life has been littered with gaffes and wild statements. None crazier than this
week.

Page224of416©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.If you missed the week, here’s a taste; “If anybody thinks we should have a national security and
defence policy which ignores the threat of a Chinese communist invasion, you’re delusional and got
rocks in your head,” she said in a written statement.

“Both Labor and the Liberals-Nationals have failed to build an Australian military that is able to defend
us and stop our grandchildren from becoming slaves to an aggressive, anti-democratic, totalitarian
foreign power.” As government Minister Barnaby Joyce said this week: The comments would be funny
if she’d had 15 beers.

Ms Lambie, for all her madness, is an influential senator and her comments are looked at globally.
Such idiocy has the potential to put Australia’s $150 billion trade relationship with China at risk.

Then there’s her views on a potential suitor.

“They must have heaps of cash and they’ve got to have a package between their legs,” she said.

“They don’t even need to speak.”

Her open-book approach gets even more open when she spoke about her bikini line on a radio
program.
“Right now the state I’m in, you’d want to bring out that whipper snipper first,” she said.

“It’s a very scary area to talk about this morning.” Yes, that’s who is running our country at the
moment.

Her views on politicians are just as fascinating.

She once said Mr Abbott needs a bucket of cement.

“You’ve got one of two choices. You can run and hide or you can say to yourself ‘here’s a bucket of
cement - toughen up’.” There are mixed views in the corridors of power in Canberra over Jacqui
Lambie. Some think she is dumb and has no idea what is going to come out of her mouth. Sydney
radio host Ray Hadley, in all sincerity, this week suggested Ms Lambie needs mental help.

Others believe the woman from Burnie, in Tasmania’s north, is far more conniving than people give
her credit for.
They think she knows how to milk the media. The fact we’re devoting this column space to her now
suggests that could be true.

She knows her market. She knows Tasmanians want a street fighter who will stick it up Canberra.

What is of concern, is the damage Ms Lambie could do, both to Australia and the fledgling Palmer
party.

And Mr Palmer knows that.

It’s why he hung up. He doesn’t want to deal with the issue. Mr Palmer can shut anyone up and can
buy almost anyone he wants. But he doesn’t know how to solve a problem like Jacqui.

As Mr Palmer tried to hose down his Q&A brain snap this week, Ms Lambie issued that infamous
statement taking his views further.

Mr Palmer probably wisely didn’t comment and copped the embarrassment of hanging up on an
interview.

“I don’t want to talk about that ... because I don’t have to. Goodbye,’’ was his response.

He has a problem.

Without all the PUPs in one kennel, Mr Palmer’s clout as Australia’s most influential politician is shot.
He knew that. He flew to Western Australia after describing the Chinese as “mongrels” to ensure his
Chinese born senator Dio Wang was still in the kennel.

He is acutely aware that Ms Lambie is a loose cannon. A public rebuke could cause her to jump ship.

Page225of416©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.There is already strong speculation she was disappointed Glenn Lazarus was made chief PUP in the
kennel. Mr Palmer doesn’t want to push his luck too far.

Political commentator Professor Paul Williams of Griffith University believes Ms Lambie will be difficult
to “rein in”.

“I could certainly see her going out as an independent in the future. She could definitely use Clive to
launch her career and go out on her own.
“I could see her being popular in Tasmania.’’ That’s Mr Palmer’s biggest fear – that brand Jacqui, as
ridiculous as it is, may be could become too big for the Palmer Party.

Expect a few more dial tones while Clive works out how to solve his biggest problem.Ms Lambie’s
dream to land a well-hung man may be easier to achieve.

NS
RE
PUB
AN

gpol : Domestic Politics | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations
austr : Australia | tasman : Tasmania | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document COUMAI0020140822ea8n00072

Page226of416©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.