Mullen has Asciano back on track

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Mullen has Asciano back on track

Mike Smith
558 words
22 August 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
28
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Michael Smith

Asciano has turned a corner after a tough couple of years dominated by some aggressive
restructuring and deep cuts under chief executive John Mullen. The focus for the ports and rail group
is now the partial sale of its Patrick operations.

Talks with potential partners, including China Merchants, have been progressing at snail's pace but
are apparently making progress. Mullen also says he is open to the idea of selling the whole thing if an
offer at the right price came along. That has not happened yet.

Put the potential Patrick deal aside and Asciano is still in good shape. Any doubts about Mullen's
ability to turn the ship around and meet long-term financial targets have now been largely put to rest
although external economic conditions are still not ideal.

Asciano shares rose 3 per cent on Thursday after beating analysts' forecasts with a 5 per cent
increase in underlying earnings. The company now expects earnings growth to improve. Mullen is
tipping about 10 per cent a year for the next two years and a healthy final dividend should keep
investors happy for now.

This is largely being achieved through work to cut costs, improve productivity and restructure
operations rather than the external environment, which is showing signs of improvement but remains
tough. When he started in the job, Mullen set a five-year target of compound annual growth rate of
15 per cent in earnings before interest and tax.
Asciano told investors in February it planned to double cost savings to $300 million by fiscal 2018. It
has merged Pacific National Rail, which moves grains, cars and consumer goods, and Pacific National
Coal into one business, which has reduced costs. Asciano was also starved of capital expenditure for
many years, which Mullen has now largely addressed. Sustaining capex is expected to return to the
$300 million to $400 million range by 2015-16.Palmer's shenanigans

Mullen says the only way is up now. There are slightly more positive signs externally and underlying
growth in its container terminals business, which has been flat, was up 3 per cent. The slowdown in
the mining sector has hit its intermodal rail business hard in the past few years.
Fewer mining projects means fewer people in Perth wanting products such as construction materials
or new fridges and washing machines, which are transported on the east-west rail corridor.
Mullen believes there are now signs that has bottomed. The company's free cash flow position was
positive in the second half. Mullen expects that to accelerate, which will allow the company to cut
debt, increase dividends and make acquisitions.

Page260of416©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The big focus remains on Patrick, and talks with China Merchants that have dragged on for a long
time. Although Mullen says he'd be open to selling the entire business for the right deal, don't read too
much into that. The current talks remain focused on a strategic tie-up, or partial sale.

He is more worried than ever about the flood of port privatisations hitting the market, particularly now
that Port of Melbourne is on the market. He is also unhappy with current political shenanigans in
Canberra, saying it undermines consumer confidence and Australia's reputation overseas.

michael.smith@afr.com.au

CO
IN
NS
RE
PUB
AN

ascian : Asciano Ltd.
itsp : Transportation/Shipping
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140821ea8m00004

Page261of416©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.