Exclusive
China may still continue to drive coal demand, keep export markets robust

China may still continue to drive coal demand, keep export markets robust

SE
HD
BY
WC 1,637 words
PD
SN
SC
VOL Issue: 82707
LA
CY
LP

Rohan Somwanshi

24 October 2014
SNL Daily Coal Report
DCOAL

English
Copyright 2014. SNL Financial LC

TD

At a time when China is restricting coal use and enacting policies to limit coal imports, expectations of
miners and traders have grown that India could emerge as the mainstay of global thermal coal demand.
Nevertheless, some analysts still believe China will continue to drive the coal market, in part due to the
continued dependence of its coal-intensive sectors on the fuel.
Even though China finally announced regulations to restrict imports and domestic sale of certain
low-grade coal, the limitation can also cause a local impact, to which producers could take time to adjust
to the new standards, and in this period, coal imports could become stronger, according to shipbroker
Intermodal analyst Eva Tzima.

Coal-intensive sectors in China, such as crude steel, cement and pig iron, will still remain dependent on
coal and the fact that those sectors' profits may stay under pressure will be exactly what will support coal,
"which still [remains] one of the cheapest options for energy out there, a knowledge well adopted across
the Asia Pacific region," Tzima was quoted as saying in the Oct. 22 Hellenic Shipping News.
Continuing in the same vein, Wood Mackenzie recently said that the collective efforts by China to control
air pollution and limit coal use in its energy mix would increase demand for coal in the near term.
From Jan. 1, 2015, China will prohibit domestic mining, sale, transportation and imports of coal with ash
and sulfur content exceeding 40% and 3%, respectively. Barely a few weeks later after China announced
the restrictions, it initiated a move to impose new tariffs on coal imports, starting Oct. 15.
Both moves, according to some analysts and experts, could affect Australian coal exports. Australia is the
world's largest coking coal exporting country. However, Australian treasurer Joe Hockey said China may
waive its new coal tariff on Australian shipments if a free trade agreement between the two countries is
reached, Sydney Morning Herald Business Day reported.
Globally, despite the glut of coal on seaborne markets, trade data indicate major coal producers are
nearly on pace to meet expectations for 2014 shipments. Data from various sources obtained by SNL
Energy showed that in the first eight months of 2014, coal shipments from major exporting countries
accounted for 64.5% of the total coal export targets estimated for these nations for the 2014 full year. The
latest monthly export data out of South Africa, however, was unavailable.
In Australia, thermal and met coal exports remain robust in the year, as key producers continued to focus
more on productivity gains than price support, analysts say. According to data cited by BB&T Capital
Markets, Australia has the largest market share in coking coal export trade in 2014, estimated at 57%.
In August, coal exports out of major Australian coal ports, including the Port Waratah Coal Services Ltd.
and Dalrymple Bay, totaled 29.5 million tonnes, according to data obtained from various sources by SNL
Energy. As exports increase from Australia, BB&T said "hopes for supply rationalization seem to rest on
the US and other high-cost regions."
Australian coal exports to China may take hit in the short- to medium-term, but seaborne coal trade
volumes in the Pacific market could soon find their balance back, as Australia may improve the quality of
their production and lure back Chinese buyers, Tzima said.
Imports into coal-hungry India and China slip

Page52of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.China saw a decline in its total coal imports in August from July due to slower demand and abundant
supply, according to the Business Standard of India. China shipped in 18.9 million tonnes of coal in
August, compared to 23 million tonnes in July. China's market share in met coal import trade during
2014 is estimated at 28%, according to BB&T.
India may be unable to fill the gap created due to receding Chinese imports, despite India's massive
requirements for coal, Xavier Marcel Prévost, senior coal analyst at XMP Consulting CC, told SNL
Energy. Giving an example of what interests Indian coal buyers, Prévost said that in South Africa, "Indian
buyers/traders are known to only buy if the [coal] price is extremely low." But if the prices are really low,
miners prefer to reduce exports rather than lose money, he explained.

"We could [here in South Africa], if/when the export market reach real parity with the inland one,
convert/sell our potential exports to local users. We have the advantage to have a really big local demand
of steam coal [Eskom utility], prices not good, but improving. We might go again into another energy
crisis, like in 2008, then the price will move quickly up," Prévost added.
India's top 12 major ports handled 9.4 million tonnes of coal in August, up 12% from 8.4 million tonnes,
according to the Press Trust of India. The country's total coal imports reached 16.1 million tonnes in
August, according to an India-based commodity news service. Meanwhile, India's domestic coal-fired
power plants continue to have coal inventories at critical levels. India imported 152 million tonnes of coal
in 2013 to meet such shortages.
Asia may see another nation emerging as a major coal consumer in the global market in the future —
Vietnam. The country currently is an exporter of thermal coal, Andy Roberts, principal analyst at Wood
Mackenzie Ltd., told SNL Energy.

"[A]s it [Vietnam] industrializes and further electrifies, its position as a net exporter will end and it will
become a significant net importer," Roberts said. "It is actively using coal to promote economic
development. Vietnam has reserves in its Red River Delta Basin, but extraction there is made difficult by
complicated geography. Thus, we expect Vietnam to import about 20 [million tonnes of coal] in 2020 and
as much as 50 [million tonnes] in 2030 in order to fuel an additional 36 GW of power production."

"The actual government target is 75 GW of new plant capacity, but this may prove to be unrealistic without
significant outside capital. Vietnam will need expensive new port infrastructure to accommodate the
growth in imports," Roberts added.
Indonesia, the world's largest coal exporter, exported 30.7 million tonnes of coal in August, according to
data from Bank Indonesia. The country has been exempted from import restrictions by China due to a
free trade agreement. But that may not be enough to pull up Indonesia's exports in 2015, as the
shipments are expected to decline to 300 million tonnes in the next year, Reuters earlier said, citing the
Indonesian Coal Mining Association.
Emerging markets show signs of growing coal demand
Throwing light on the other emerging coal markets, Mongolia and Mexico have shown impressive growth
signs in terms of coal exports and consumption this year. Mongolia's year-to-date met coal exports as of
August touched 9.8 million tonnes, up 25.8% year over year, according to data from Stifel Nicolaus & Co.
Mexico reported a 13% increase in its coal-fired generation in the first half of 2014, a Peabody Energy
Corp. presentation shows. Annual global coal use is expected to grow 600 million tonnes over the next
three years, Peabody said in the presentation.
South Africa, which exported roughly 78 million tonnes of coal in 2013, may declare the fuel a "strategic"
mineral, allowing coal to be sold on production cost minus transportation charges. South Africa's coal
exports to China have reportedly dropped to almost nothing since March 2014, echoing the impact of
China's protectionist measures against coal imports, according to the City Press. The report said China's
imports of South African coal in the first eight months of 2014 dropped by more than 50%, to 3.3 million
tonnes from 7.5 million tonnes a year ago.
The Richards Bay coal terminal in South Africa, one of the world's largest coal terminal, did not report
port statistics for August. Queries sent to the company went unanswered.
Data collected from Australia's Bureau of Resources and Energy Economics and other sources show
Russia is on the path to cross the estimated annual export target much before the year ends. Russia
exported 12.7 million tonnes of coal in August, up 3.8% from the year-ago period, according to
government data cited by Port News. During the January-August period, Russia's coal exports were up
12.4% from the same period of 2013.

Page53of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Coal exports from Canada reached 3.1 million tonnes of coal in August, with the largest shipments going
to South Korea, followed by Japan and China, data from Statistics Canada showed. Canada may export
34 million tonnes of coal in full year 2014, according to BREE.
Colombian coal exports were 8.6 million tonnes in August, down from 8.9 million tonnes in the previous
month, according to a government statistics agency.
When asked at what price levels the global met and thermal coal industries can comfortably service their
capital structure or expect a positive outlook, Prévost said: "I think we're not far from it. We did a quick
calculation of mine costs plus logistics and it showed not much room left for maneuvering."
As of Oct. 17, thermal coal prices at the Newcastle and Richards Bay benchmarks were $63.30/tonne and
$64.90/tonne, respectively, data from Bloomberg and McCloskey showed. While seaborne high-quality
coking coal prices have reached $119/tonne in fourth quarter of 2014, Cormark Securities Inc. expects
prices to reach $128/tonne in 2015. The potential for a policy change in China could support higher
demand and a recovery in prices sooner than it has estimated, Cormark said in a research note.

IN

NS

RE

i111 : Coal Mining | i1300006 : Pipeline Transportation | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i1 : Energy | ibasicm :
Basic Materials/Resources
c312 : External Markets | gtrade : Tariffs/Trade Barriers | e512 : Physical Trade | reqrmm : Suggested
Reading Metals/Mining | c31 : Marketing/Markets | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e51 : Trade/External
Payments | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gdip : International Relations | gpir :
Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News
Filter | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | china : China | india : India | africaz : Africa | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | indsubz : Indian Subcontinent |
sasiaz : Southern Asia

IPD Transportation and Storage
PUB SNL Financial LC
AN

Document DCOAL00020141029eaao0000f

Page54of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.