Shoppers flock to social media but ignore 'boring' branded content

Rebecca Huntley

SE Marketing
HD
BY
WC 811 words
PD
SN
SC
ED
LA
CY
LP

Shoppers flock to social media but ignore 'boring' branded content

2 June 2014
BRW
BRW
First
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

TD

You've probably noticed this happening on your Facebook feed: friends asking for recommendations
about everything from the most energy-efficient washing machine, to child-friendly accommodation in
Vietnam, to best BYO restaurant in the city or whether the Samsung tablet is better than the new iPad.
Social media has become yet another digital space we go to research our purchases before we commit
(either to buying in store or online).

The use of social media as a shopping aid is not uncommon in the general population. However research
Ipsos has conducted into highly engaged users of social media (we call them "social creatives") shows
just how indispensable these forums are when it comes to purchasing decisions.

Of course the use of specialist or fan forums of all kinds is par for the course. "Forums influence me when
I'm buying stuff. Like when I'm [making the] decision to buy PS4 or Xbox One. There were huge
arguments about it online and I went through and found out all these problems with Xbox One in terms of
compatibility and sharing. It made the decision quite easy." Online reviews are also widely used. "I won't
buy anything over $200 without going to see reviews first." TripAdvisor continues to stand out as the best
example of a review site, a must read for all prospective travellers. "Man 1: TripAdvisor is great. You can
get any information on any hotels. Man 2: Booking.com hooks up to that which is really cool. The site is
so smart, it predicted the city we were going to go to in Europe and offered hotel deals."

And yet this social-media-obsessed cohort has found other digital tools to help them shop beyond the
obvious online reviews and shout-outs on Facebook. These include YouTube. "Man 1: You can go to
YouTube to see like game play and testing. Woman 1: I go there and see people from China and Korea
and they show you what parts come in the box and what they thought of it." And even Twitter. "When I
was going to Bali I was looking at resorts and looked for hashtags of where people were staying. You get
real reviews and pictures of food." When it comes to style, fashion, interiors and the like, Pinterest is being
used as a kind of virtual shopping list, a personal look book to be referred to before and during shopping
sprees. "I'm on Pinterest for style things. To save them, to reflect. The wishlist, what I want to buy. I used
it a lot for my 21st birthday which was themed 50s. Got lots of inspiration."

While consumers, particularly these social creative types, are using social media in various forms to direct
their purchasing decisions, branded content on social media is still derided. Not because consumers
expect social media to be a commercial- or brand-free zone; on the contrary, they expect any
organisation public or private to have a social media presence. No, they just perceive branded content to
be boring, uninspiring and not worth sharing. "The promoted stuff on social media . . . boring." "Twitter . . .
you can have a promoted tweet. It's the first thing on top of your feed for that day. They are always not
worth looking at. It's an ad . . . and they never say anything funny or interesting." The fact that this content
is commercial is not necessarily the issue. Social media platforms of all kinds are accepted and used as
possible vehicles for selling and buying, for promoting brands, especially your own. The problem with
sponsored content online is that it fails to be interesting, creative, shareable. "I would like to see
companies rise to the challenge of more interesting stuff on Twitter and Facebook. . . . Companies need to
understand the platform they are on and understand the content that's already there." "If something is well
done, I don't have a problem sharing it even if it is sponsored."

Page128of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.For retailers, online and offline, the use of social media platforms of all kinds as shopping aids by this
social creative group hints at what the broader base of consumers will be embracing in the near future.
Post-budget quantitative research has shown cost of living concerns are set to rise as we enter the "age
of austerity" (83 per cent of respondents in an Ipsos poll released earlier this week believe that cost of
living will increase because of the budget). A highly competitive retail market will get even tougher. A
clever, creative and comprehensive digital and social media strategy could be one of your devices to
attract the attention of the distracted and anxious Australian consumer.

For brands already in the digital sphere, the message is clear. Be interesting or be ignored.

isocial : Social Media | iint : Internet/Online | imed : Media/Entertainment | itech : Technology
gsnet : Social Networking | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | gweb : Web Participation
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

CO onlnfr : Facebook Inc
IN
NS
RE
PUB Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
AN

Document BRW0000020140602ea6200001

Page129of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.