Sick food policy canned

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Sick food policy canned

By JAMES WAGSTAFF
391 words
29 October 2014
Weekly Times
HERWEK
WeeklyTimes
3
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

THE Victorian Government’s $22 million bailout of fruit processor SPC Ardmona is being undermined
by its own Health Department.

More than half the canned and packaged fruit served in Victoria’s public hospitals comes from
overseas, including from China, Italy, the US, South Africa, Thailand and Vietnam, a department report
has revealed.

That’s despite lobbying by Goulburn Valley-based SPC Ardmona and farmers for more than 18 months
for an Australian-first procurement policy.

SPC Ardmona managing director Peter Kelly said while “everyone wants to help, no one does”. “They
support it in principle but they don’t do anything about it,” he said.

Victorian Farmers Federation president Peter Tuohey said it lacked logic that “our political leaders are
investing $22 million to support local jobs, farmers and the produce that flows out of SPCA’s
Shepparton plant” but the “Department of Health is feeding public hospital patients, mainly imported
canned and packaged fruit”.
The Government’s $22 million assistance package to SPC Ardmona in February came with Premier
Denis Napthine’s assurance he would leave “no stone unturned” in ensuring the survival of the
company and industry for the region.

A report by Health Purchasing Victoria, seen by The Weekly Times, shows just 44 per cent of canned
fruit used in Victorian public hospitals came from Australia, with 17 per cent coming from China, almost
9 per cent from Italy and 4 per cent from the US. Fruit is also sourced from South Africa, Thailand and
Vietnam. There are also concerns about the safety of the imported fruit with the Health Department
revealing one sample of Chinese peaches had a lead content twice the Australian standard.

SPC and other industry bodies including the VFF, the Australian Food and Grocery Council, AusVeg
and Apple and Pear Australia Ltd have stepped up calls for a Victorian food procurement policy to be
adopted by all State Government departments and agencies before next month’s Victorian election.

A spokesman for Health Minister David Davis said Mr Davis had met with SPC Ardmona and “changes
have been made to information provided by Health Purchasing Victoria to assist health services to
purchase Victorian produce”.
Claims regarding the presence of lead in imported products were not substantiated by independent
testing, the spokesman said.● Your say, Page 21

CO

spcast : SPC Ardmona Ltd | victff : Victorian Farmers Federation | amtl : Coca-Cola Amatil Ltd | coca :
The Coca-Cola Company

Page97of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

RE
PUB
AN

i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i414 : Food Preserving/Speciality Foods | icnp : Consumer Goods |
ifood : Food Products
austr : Australia | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document HERWEK0020141028eaat0002a

Page98of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.