AUCTION FAIL AS ‘GHOSTS’ APPEAR

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
AUCTION FAIL AS ‘GHOSTS’ APPEAR

LUCY ARDERN LUCY.ARDERN@NEWS.COM.AU
567 words
24 October 2014
Gold Coast Bulletin
GCBULL
GoldCoast
3
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

IT was billed as the final wake for the once mighty horse empire owned by Nathan Tinkler.
The sale of four properties in the Hinterland was held to clear millions of dollars of debt between
friends and foes.

But, in a crazy twist of irony, the funeral for the former mining magnate’s wild punt on the Sport of
Kings was gatecrashed by ghosts of the Gold Coast’s past – and there wasn’t a white sheet in sight
to conceal the shame.

Forget burial sites, this was plotting of a different kind, and none of the key players were wearing
black.

Disgraced developers John Fish and Michael King, both in an awakening of the GFC dead, elbowed
each other in a multimillion-dollar bidding duel for one of Mr Tinkler’s gems.
In the end neither of them won out, the property failing to reach reserve. The pair stayed away from
the main lots ‒ Wadham Park and Elysian Fields ‒ that Gold Coast racing identities Hoss and Gillian
Heinrich tried hard to buy.
Instead they focused on the 283.4ha site Benobble, formerly owned by Mr Fish. The auction was a
rare public outing on the Gold Coast for Mr King following the collapse of the MFS Group in 2008,
owing about $2.5 billion.

The former lawyer, who is defending allegations of corporate wrongdoing brought by the Australian
Securities and Investments Commission, has been employed by a Hong Kong billionaire as project
manager for the proposed $8.15 billion Aquis resort-casino in Cairns.
In June last year, a liquidator found Fish Developments, the main property vehicle for Mr Fish, had
liabilities of $31.33 million and assets of $942.
Mr Fish avoided bankruptcy after doing a deal with creditors, but left subcontractors about $1 million
out of pocket and the Australian Tax Department chasing him for $4 million.
The Hope Island investor was in the news again in March after police recovered a gem collection he
owned once valued at $40 million.

Yesterday, several racing figures expressed surprise at the appearance of the fallen developers, with
one person shaking his head and saying: “Everything old is new again on the Gold Coast”.

Mr Fish would not say if he was bidding for himself or someone else, choosing instead to attack Mr
Tinkler for a “sham auction”.

“It was a disgrace,” he said.

Page91of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mr King appeared to be bidding on behalf of Hong Kong connections. None of the four Hinterland
properties changed hands, the $11.6 million in total bids falling well short of the rumoured $20
million Mr Tinkler was looking for.

Mr Heinrich was also angry about the auction process, saying he went with the expectation that
everything was for sale. “I thought it was an unreserved auction,” he said.

“But I don’t know if Nathan (Tinkler) genuinely wants to sell.” Mr Heinrich said creditors, including
friend Gerry Harvey to whom Mr Tinkler allegedly owes millions of dollars, would start putting
pressure on the former mining operator.

“He could take the offer and move on,” he said.As to who won interim bragging rights between Mr
Fish and Mr King, for the property neither could snare, the $2.85 million bid by Mr Fish, a former
owner of the property, was trumped by Mr King’s $3.5 million.

NS
RE
PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document GCBULL0020141024eaao00014

Page92of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.