Roundup: China lights path for an Australia failing on climate-based innovation

HD
BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Roundup: China lights path for an Australia failing on climate-based innovation

Edwards
1,084 words
19 September 2014
14:32
Xinhua's China Economic Information Service
XNHA
English
(c) 2014 新华通讯社版权所有，未经协定授权，禁止下载使用。

by Edwards Christian

SYDNEY, Sept. 19 (Xinhua) -- As global climate pacts continue to evaporate, Australia's top public
intellectuals and renewable energy experts are this week lauding China's leadership towards "a world of
decarbonized energy", raising concerns the resource-rich nation has failed to seize the subsequent
opportunities presented by China's viable energy alternative.

Economic and environmental frustration is spilling over here in the wake of Australian research published
in Monday's issue of the science journal Nature, detailing the ways in which China has broken the fossil
fuel conundrum by building "manufacturing industries, enhancing energy security and contributing to
reducing carbon emissions".
Speaking exclusively to Xinhua, Ross Garnaut, a former Australian Ambassador to China, said Australia
was being left behind on the economic and ethical opportunities of China's world- leading renewable
policies. "The Australian political and business elite have missed this turning point in Chinese
development and therefore this opportunity," Garnaut said.
CHINA MORE GREEN THAN JUST BLACK AND WHITE
While the crux of western discussion of China's environment has been to describe China as an
energy-hungry juggernaut, intent on sucking the marrow out of traditional carbon-based fuels, the reality
is far less black and white, and, in fact, a lot more green.
China's 20 years of rapid economic and social development that has so astonished the world came at a
high-cost in terms of global emissions, Garnaut, one of Australia's most respected public intellectuals,
said.
"And then China took the world by surprise again," he added. "The pattern of Chinese economic growth
changed, towards less energy-intensive activity and less emissions-intensive energy," Garnaut
explained.

While Australia's own national programs to combat climate change evaporated like so much of the
rhetoric that marked equally ineffectual global pacts like the Kyoto protocol, Garnaut said China, rather
than follow suit, galvanized its economic programs into a sustainability scenario that left the developed
world in its wake.

"The effects of the structural changes... have again transformed expectations of what is possible in global
climate change mitigation, this time in a positive direction," Garnaut said.

AN OPPORTUNITY LOST

Garnaut's lamentation for Australia's once bold approach to combating climate change makes the
subsequent economic blowback a harsh reality.

Page252of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Australian coal exporters are scratching their heads at another expression of Beijing's determination to
deliver on its climate promises, this week slamming the brakes on imported coal with more than 16
percent ash and three percent sulfur from 2015.
The Chinese Government's latest step forward in utilizing alternative energy is exposing both Australia's
environmental double standards and its mining industry to billions of dollars in lost exports.
According to Garnaut, Australia's decision makers, giddy with the riches of a decade-long, China-driven
mining boom, have simply failed to read the signs of China's commitment to renewable energies.

"It's an elementary failure of observation, analysis and empathy," said Garnaut.

SHORT-SIGHTED

Dr. Chris Riedy is an associate professor and co-director at the University of technology's Institute for
Sustainable Futures.
Riedy believes that while China is marching forward, Australia is stomping off in the other direction.
"China has become demonized for having the highest greenhouse gas emissions in the world. But China
is the leading manufacturer of wind turbines and solar panels, is rapidly deploying renewable energy
and is moving towards carbon pricing," said Riedy

Riedy, whose own analysis of GreenPower -- a government accreditation program that enables electricity
providers to purchase renewable energy on behalf of consumers -- is itself under attack by the ruckus
surrounding Australia's revision of the Renewable Energy Target (RETT).

Riedy told Xinhua that Australia's decision to repeal carbon pricing and potentially withdraw support for
renewable energy is "short sighted in the extreme."

"Australia's reliance on fossil fuels, both domestically and for overseas markets, is environmentally
reckless and economically shortsighted. Renewable energy is the market of the future and Australia is
being left behind," Riedy added.

THE PINCH OF CARBON LIBERATION

Having "axed the tax", the pre-election pledge of Prime Minister Tony Abbott to remove the world's first
carbon tax, Australia has given over to, in the words of John Mathews, professor of strategic
Management at Macquarie University and Hao Tan, a senior lecturer of the International Business at the
University of Newcastle, a wave of "anti-renewables rhetoric and negative reaction."
But perhaps more importantly, the resource-rich nation, just emerging form a China-driven mining
boom, will be among the first countries to feel the pinch of China's liberation from Australian fossil fuels.
The implications, if not the philosophy of renewables, should be devastatingly clear to Australia's energy
sector, scholars on the matter maintain.
China has outlined further expectations on wind and solar capacity.

The outline revealed an increase that will almost double the capacity of all forms of Australia's current
power generation.
According to Ross Garnaut, the increase in Chinese solar power capacity "will exceed by a wide
margin"of Australia's total electricity generation capacity.

This may be good news for the world, but not for an Australian economy seemingly intent on turning
away from renewables, in favor of a fossil-fueled Trojan Horse.

HOPE IS RENEWABLE

Writing in the science journal Nature, John Mathews and Hao Tan said that the Middle Kingdom is driving
down renewable costs, divesting the world's economic engine of fossil fuel dependency and showing all
nations a viable energy alternative.
The Australian researchers delivered a comprehensive review of China's world-leading renewable
practices, concluding that by emphasizing renewable markets and committing to wind power, solar,
batteries and other innovations, a channel is being carved to apply renewables as "more than just agents
for reducing carbon emissions."

Page253of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."China shows us just such a way. By boosting markets in water, wind and solar power, China is driving
down costs and accelerating the uptake of renewable energy," Tan and Mathews said.

"We argue that this is contributing more than any other country to a climate change solution, and could
be viable alternative to international climate agreements such as the Kyoto Protocol, which have been so
ineffective in cleaning up the world's still carbon- heavy energy supplies," they added.
Moreover, by leading the world in renewable investments, China is essentially enhancing the country's
energy security and not solely as a means of reducing carbon emissions. Enditem

RF
NS

RE

01
gclimt : Climate Change | gcat : Political/General News | genv : Environmental News | gglobe :
Global/World Issues | gwea : Weather
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

PUB China Economic Information Service of Xinhua News Agency
AN

Document XNHA000020140919ea9j001rx

Page254of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.