Bhp Billiton PLC Investor Briefing Sydney - Final

HD Bhp Billiton PLC Investor Briefing Sydney - Final
WC 16,219 words
PD 23 November 2014
SN CQ FD Disclosure
SC FNDW
LA English
CY © 2014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.
LP

Presentation

ANDREW MACKENZIE, CEO, BHP BILLITON PLC: Well, good morning, to everybody here in Sydney;
and hello, to those on the webcast.

TD

But first let me point you to the disclaimer, and remind you of its importance to today's presentation.

Now, you're going to be familiar with quite a lot of the material from our presentation in London, but we do
want to reiterate the key points and provide you with the opportunity to ask questions on those topics.

But as I did in London, I'll start by providing an overview of our performance in the 2014 financial year to
show you what we achieved. I'll then share more detail and how we expect further simplification via our
proposed demerger to unlock even more value for our shareholders. And, I'll provide a brief update on the
new Company.

Following this I'll reiterate our definitive targets, both production and costs, for each of our major
businesses, so that you can continue to track us; we must be accountable to you, our owners.

I'll then conclude with our capital management framework and explain how it will enable us to consistently
deliver superior performance and more cash to our shareholders. Mike Henry, our President of HSE,
Marketing and Technology, will then share our unchanged views on commodity markets.
A few weeks ago in London we drilled into two of our major businesses, iron ore and petroleum. Today
Dean Dalla Valle will present on coal. And Peter Beaven, our new Chief Financial Officer, will provide an
update on copper, given that, until very recently, he was our President of copper.

You will have also seen today our announcement that, from January 1, Dean and Mike will swap roles. This
is consistent with our strategic approach to leadership development.
The Company's in great shape. We have a clear strategy. We will deliver on our commitments by doing
what we say we will do.
Keeping our people and operations safe matters more to me and the team than anything else, because
we view safety performance as a critical indicator of a business in control. In the 2014 financial year, we
delivered our best ever safety performance.

Sustainability, our first charter value, is also a key consideration for all of our investment decisions.

In the 2014 financial year, we exceeded production guidance for a number of our core commodities. For
the 2015 financial year, we're well positioned to achieve record production again.
We remain focused on generating value through productivity. We delivered nearly $3 billion in
productivity-led gains in the 2014 financial year. And, today, have committed to a new minimum target of
$4 billion of annualized efficiencies from our core portfolio by the end of the 2017 financial year.

Finally, the combination of our high-quality assets, optimal diversification, and a disciplined approach to
capital management, including our unbroken progressive dividend and strong balance sheet, enable us to
generate superior shareholder returns. This is our distinctive investor proposition.

Page155of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.If you look at our score card for the 2014 financial year, you'll see that we achieved strong results. And
there's more to come. Over the last two years, our simplification process, including well-timed asset sales,
created more than $6.5 billion of proceeds.
Our outstanding operating performance delivered annual production records at 12 of our operations
across four commodities.
And, we embedded an additional $2.9 billion of productivity-led gains, more than $1 billion above our
guidance, with about $1 billion coming from volumes, and nearly $2 billion from cost efficiencies.

For the 2014 financial year we reduced our capital and exploration expenditure by almost one-third, to
$15.2 billion. So that in a period of falling commodity prices, this resulted in an $8 billion increase in free
cash flow.

The strong cash generating capacity of our business underpins our commitment to a progressive base
dividend, the minimum expectation that our shareholders should have. We increased our dividend by
another 4% in the 2014 financial year, to $1.21 per share, for a payout ratio of 48%. All of this delivers
valuable growth and yield to our shareholders.

So why do we focus on simplifying our portfolio? Well, we believe by simplifying our organization we can
sharpen our focus and improve productivity. Large companies often become more complex as they push
for growth. Additional layers of management and new processes are required to manage such
organizations.

In time, the cost of complexity outweighs economies of scale and erodes the benefits of retaining too many
options for growth. I've worked in many complex organizations throughout my career and I've seen how
important it is to avoid this.

At BHP Billiton we've already addressed this challenge over many years to make sure we maximize the
value of our assets. As the Company has grown, we've increased our focus on our largest and most
profitable assets. And we've put in place standard systems and processes to make sure decisions are
made as close to the business as possible.
We've also sold several assets in a disciplined manner to maximize value for shareholders and simplify our
organization. In the last two years, we have sold, as I said, $6.5 billion worth of assets, all at attractive
valuations.
For example, the $1.9 billion sale of our interest in Richards Bay Minerals, timed at the top of the titanium
dioxide market; the $430 million sale of our folio in Yeelirrie project, a development project not typically
included in analyst valuations.
The $1.6 billion sale of Browse, another development project that was not normally included in analyst
valuations, and in which we are only invested $300 million. Then the $650 million sale of Pinto Valley, an
asset that didn't fit with our long-life, low-cost, strategy, but was sold at an attractive premium to the
average analyst valuation at the time.

We are clear about which assets best fit our strategy. There is no rush to sell. Our financial position is
strong. And we will not agree to terms that do not meet our value or returns criteria.

For example, as you know we sought to divest our nickel asset in Western Australia, and announced,
earlier this month, that we were unable to find a buyer willing to offer terms acceptable to us. So we will
retain the asset for now, and run it for maximum value.

Equally, we recently announced our intention to test the market's interest in our Fayetteville shale assets.
But consistent with our commitment to shareholders, we will only complete a sale if a buyer is willing to pay
full value that reflects both the quality of our acreage and the positive outlook for US gas prices.

Again, achieving value for shareholders is our priority, and determines all the decisions we make about the
portfolio.

In this ongoing process of portfolio simplification, the proposed demerger is the logical next step. We
believe it will deliver more value than the alternatives, like maintaining today's portfolio, or selling our
non-core assets through trade sales. By concentrating our focus on our largest and most profitable assets,
this will deliver a step-change improvement in BHP Billiton's performance.

Our existing organization has worked well. It's enabled us to develop and operate a complex diversified
portfolio of substantial scale and geographical spread.

Page156of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.It's been supported by our standard systems and processes, which have all made sure that decisions are
made at the operation asset, or even business, level, wherever it is best to maximize value. But it was
designed for a more complex asset portfolio and operating environment.

The demerger creates the opportunity for us to redesign the business. Put simply, we can organize a
company that operates just 12 large core assets quite differently to one with 30 operated assets of varying
size across a broader range of commodities.

In the 2014 financial year, our core assets generated 96% of underlying EBIT. So we can cut complexity
and its associated costs without losing any of the benefits of scale and diversity.

Let's take costs not directly linked with the production process first, which we'll call functional costs.

A simpler portfolio will enable us to reduce the range and volume of the functional work we need to
manage. As well as to aggregate this level at a higher level.

It will also allow us to further delayer and streamline our organizational structure; and handle a greater
proportion of our high volume routine work, through shared service centers located in lower-cost locations.
We spend more than $3 billion on this functional support a year, so it will only take a modest reduction to
create substantial additional value.

A simpler portfolio will also cause us to focus even more on improving operational performance. In recent
years, we've cut complexity by increasing standardization across the Group. So assets have
more-common equipment, systems, and ways of working. This has established a solid platform from which
we can continue to share and improve operational performance faster.

Following the demerger, our portfolio, as you've heard, will include fewer assets, a lot fewer assets, but
these will have a much greater proportion of common characteristics. Everyone will be large, very large,
up-stream-focused with a long life that supports, what we call, an advanced-manufacturing approach to
operations.

This will allow us to increase the depth of our benchmarking, standardize the way we complete more
common tasks, and eliminate duplication of effort, to an even greater extent. This opportunity is significant.
Small, but carefully targeted, changes to critical work spread right across the Company quickly can create
very large benefits.

Achieving our own current best practice in truck utilization, for example, across our entire fleet, even if we
assume that this just allowed us to park up the trucks and add nothing to production, would add $300
million per year to operating cash flow. Every 1% added to the throughput on our system bottlenecks
would add another $230 million per year.

Changes such as these won't be easy and they won't be achieved immediately. But this is an illustration of
the size of the prize on offer.

We strongly believe that we can get there more rapidly when senior management has a greater focus on
our core safety and operational opportunities, and best practice only has to be created and shared quickly
between just 12 core assets.

We believe a simpler portfolio would, therefore, enable our teams to improve our productivity further, faster,
and with greater certainty.

Now that our demerger plans are public, we've been able to begin to define the areas of improvement in
more detail, because clearly we need to consult very widely.

We've become, in the recent months, increasingly confident that our focus on improvements right across
our core assets, which the demerger facilitates, can generate further productivity gains beyond those
already announced.
So I'm pleased to tell you that we are now targeting annualized productivity gains in the core portfolio of at
least $4 billion by the end of the 2017 financial year. This, as you're aware, is a $500 million increase on
previous guidance of $3.5 billion. This target is on top of the $6.6 billion of productivity-led gains
embedded during the last two years.

Critically, we believe our improvements will last and be a point of differentiation. The demerger and
enhanced operational efficiency are not the only tools though that we have to create value for
shareholders. We're also focused on capital productivity, and our priority has to been to identify now we
can reduce the cost of bringing on new production, so we can lower our investment without slowing
production growth.

Page157of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.While I'll cover this in more detail towards the end of the presentation, I am pleased to confirm that in the
2015 financial year, we will reduce projected capital expenditure from $14.8 billion to $14.2 billion. And in
the 2016 financial year, we expect to invest $13 billion.
Simplification through our proposed demerger is, without a doubt, the right strategy for the Company. As
you all know, the new Company we are creating will be a global metals and mining company, with
high-quality assets, but not of the scale of those that remain in our core businesses.

It will, however, pursue its own bespoke strategy that matches its quite different type of asset, to unlock an
analogous set of productivity gains to those I described for the core.

Its selected portfolio includes 11 operated assets, primarily in Australia and Southern Africa. In the 2014
financial year, generated almost $1.8 billion of EBITDA. The portfolio remains cash flow positive, despite
recent market volatility. This underscores the relative strength of their assets in their industries.
An improvement in ore recovery and an increase in plant availability resulted in record quarterly production
at Hotazel; and overall, manganese ore production increased by 10% in the September 2014 quarter, to a
record 2.3 million tonnes. As smelter reliability improved manganese alloy production increased by 25%
last quarter.
Further, at Illawarra Coal, a series of productivity initiatives drove the mine to achieve record run-of-mine
volumes, and production increased by 64% in the September 2014 quarter, to 2.3 million tonnes.

As I said, with its own bespoke strategy, systems and processes specifically tailored for a business of its
scale and geographies, the new Company will now be very well placed to see its assets realize their full
potential, and of course deliver a lot more productivity as well.
The new Company will be lean and flat, and we've chose a regional operating model. We'll have an
experienced team, led by Graham Kerr as CEO and Chaired by David Crawford, who retired from the BHP
Billiton Board just last week.
The new Company set up is proceeding to plan, with Ricus Grimbeek now appointed as Chief Operating
Office for Australia and Mike Fraser as Chief Operating Office for Africa. Both bring a wealth of experience
in the metals and mining industries, and have extensive operational credentials, having spent time as
asset presidents for BHP Billiton during their careers.
The appointments of Mike and Ricus to these leadership roles in the new Company demonstrate the
strength of our strategic approach to management development.
In addition to Mike's departure from BHP Billiton's Group Management Committee, as I said, I've also
announced today other changes to our GMC, as we continue to develop our people and our Company for
future success. These appointments illustrate the strength of the team that we're creating.
As expected, there's been a lot of interest in the new Company, and I'm pleased to confirm that the
proposed demerger remains on track for completion in the first half of the 2015 calendar year. Most of you
know that the new Company will be an Australian incorporated entity, and we'll apply for an ASX primary
listing, a JSE secondary listing, and a standard listing in London.

We've already received a number of significant regulatory approvals, including Australia's Foreign
Investment Review Board and from the Australian tax office. We're progressing well on those that remain
outstanding.

In March, we're expecting to release all shareholder documentation, with full details of the proposed
demerger, and this will include a BHP Billiton shareholder circular and an information memorandum for the
demerged Company.
It's around this time that we plan to host tours of the new Company's major operations and showcase the
quality of these assets. We also plan to hold an Extraordinary General Meeting in May 2015, for both BHP
Billiton Limited and plc shareholders to vote on the demerger.
Based on our current timetable, the new Company is expected to trade in the first half of the 2015
calendar year.

Back to the business.

We continue to improve our safety performance in the 2014 financial year. We improved it to our
lowest-ever total recordable injury frequency rate of 4.2 for every million hours worked. Importantly, we
also suffered no fatalities.

Page158of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.While we're encouraged by this result, recent events, again, demonstrated that we can never rest on past
performance.

We were all deeply saddened by the fatal injury of one of our colleagues at our Worsley refinery in Western
Australia in September. Extensive investigations are underway, to understand how this incident occurred
and ensure we learn all the lessons quickly across BHP Billiton in both companies, because the safety of
our people will always come first.
Given the scale of our operations and resources, we will continue to be an important member and
contribute to our communities for decades. We do set ourselves very high environmental standards and
believe that there must be a significant acceleration in the development and deployment of low-emissions
technologies, and we will champion this change.
Since the 2007 financial year, we've invested nearly $0.5 billion to support emissions reduction and
energy efficient projects. We'll continue to make more of these investments and to take opportunities to
partner with governments, industry and researchers to invest in the technologies that could lead to a
reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from the use of fossil fuels.

We have improved, of course, our own performance there and reduced our greenhouse gas emissions by
1.7 million tonnes in the 2014 financial year. And despite producing significantly more volumes since then,
our greenhouse gas emissions are now below our 2006 financial year baseline.

We've also achieved a 22% reduction in potential occupational exposures compared to our 2012 baseline.

We also seek to be a valued partner in host communities and recognize that their support is central to our
success. We work with these host communities all around the world to understand their issues and identify
the opportunities: from helping Brazilian coffee farmers improve their productivity sustainable; to signing an
opportunities agreement with three First Nations in Saskatchewan; to humanitarian assistance for typhoons
in the Philippines, bush fires in Australia, and Ebola in West Africa.
Alongside the over $240 million invested in the Company last year in community and conservation
programs with lasting benefit, our own people also make a real difference to the communities where they
live and work; they volunteer their time and donate money which we match, doubling their contribution. In
the 2014 financial year, this amounted to $12.1 million.
For the year, we also paid $9.9 billion in Company taxes, royalties and certain indirect taxes.
In the 2014 financial year, we delivered record volumes with a 9% increase in Group production through
investment and productivity. And our core portfolio was the foundation of this success, with growth in
copper equivalent terms, of 15%.

During the period, we also successfully completed six major projects, with two of those delivered under
budget and ahead of schedule.

Looking ahead, the ramp up of these projects, combined with our productivity agenda, will deliver another
year of record production. Our previously-stated guidance for each of our core commodities remains intact.

And, over the two years to the end of the 2014 financial year, we're also on track to deliver growth of 23%
from our core portfolio.
Alongside this productivity-led growth sits almost $2 billion of real cost savings embedded last year and
we remain confident that there is much more to come.
At Western Australian iron ore, we reduced unit costs to under $26 per tonne in the second half of the
2014 financial year. But we've only just scratched the surface and we see a clear pathway to FOB cash
costs of less than $20 per tonne in the medium term.
There's no reason why we shouldn't be the lowest all-in cost supplier to China.

Dean will walk you through our core business later, but I would like to just take a moment to highlight the
outstanding progress that Dean and his team have made.
In the 2014 financial year, our Queensland coal operation reduced operating costs by 24% to $99 per
tonne. This has re-established this business as a leader in its industry.
We are, of course, no longer investing for growth in our coal business. All volume increases from now on
will come from productivity. We expect this focus to yield another 10% reduction in unit costs at
Queensland coal this year.

Page159of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.In our onshore US business, we continue to forecast that in the 2015 financial year unit costs will decline
by approximately 10%. The business will be free cash flow positive in the 2016 financial year and, by the
end of the decade, will approach $3 billion per annum.
Just to highlight this point, this is an annualized $5 billion increase over the period, representing growth of
more than $800 million in each and every year between now and then.
[Fast-lane] copper, like elsewhere in the business, we have an unrelenting focus on productivity and costs.
Escondida unit costs have fallen by 22% in the last two years and in the 2015 financial year, we forecast a
further decline of more than 5%.

Let me now describe how we convert our continued improvement in operational performance into superior
growth in shareholder returns.

Our longstanding capital management framework defines four priorities for cash flow: one, a commitment
to maintain a strong balance sheet and solid A credit rating throughout the cycle.

Two, a commitment to at least maintain or grow our progressive base dividend in every reporting period.

Three, a commitment to invest selectively in high-return diversified opportunities, again through the cycle.

And four, a commitment to return excess capital to shareholders in the most-efficient way.

We see a solid A balance sheet as a precondition to consistently maximize shareholder value and returns.
We test forward projections for cash flow to make sure that in a low-case scenario, we can be sure of
maintaining an A or A2 credit rating.

Should this test indicate that we have excess capital, once we've paid a progressive base dividend and
selectively invested in our high-return projects, we will consider buybacks or special dividends.

But given the underlying volatility, we will only return excess cash once it's accumulated on our balance
sheet, so that any program has a high degree of certainty of being completed.

This is a consistent and enduring capital management framework.

By maintain our solid A, we achieve three objectives at all points in the cycle: a lower cost of funding;
access to markets; and sufficient liquidity. History has proven that this is not true for other companies in our
industry that flirt with higher levels of debt.

We also enjoy access to diverse sources of funding and a well-balanced maturity profile that currently
averages 10 years. All of this combined equates to an efficient capital structure for BHP Billiton.

It's while sitting within the envelope of solid A that we've been able to maintain a progressive-based
dividend, and we're the only Company in our peer group to have achieved this over the last decade and
our base dividend has grown at a compound annual rate of 17%; again, superior to the peer group.
Our dividend is a firm commitment. We will not rebase or lower the dividend should the shareholders
approve the demerger and this implies, all other things being equal, a higher payout ratio than the 48%, I
talked about earlier.

Our opportunity-rich portfolio and a solid A balance sheet allows us to invest selectively through the cycle
for value. The capacity to complete major projects and invest in new high-return opportunities, even in
periods of extreme volatility, is an important differentiator in an industry characterized by boom and bust
cycles, and this requires resilience and discipline.

Our capital allocation framework makes sure we consider all alternatives for capital, as we seek to optimize
for net present value; IRR; return on capital employed; and margin. This rigorous process creates active
competition against all possible uses of cash.

All businesses and their projects compete for capital against one another and the ever-present option of
buying our shares.

So to our plans. As I mentioned earlier, we are focused on capital productivity and, as we've reduced
spending, we've increased the competition for capital. Our teams have been pushed to lower the capital
intensity of our planned growth.
We reduced capital and exploration expenditure in the 2014 financial year by 32% to $15.2 billion. Our
expenditure will decline again in the 2015 financial year to $14.2 billion, that's $600 million below our prior

Page160of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.guidance. And, in the 2016 financial year, capital expenditure will again decline to $13 billion in nominal
terms.
This includes roughly $2 billion for maintenance capital; $1 billion for exploration; less than $500 million
at Jansen; less than $4 billion for onshore US; and around $1.5 billion to maintain steady production in
our existing conventional petroleum business. The remainder is available for our mineral projects and
execution, and our diversified portfolio of development options.

We have been able to achieve this as a result of capital productivity. So importantly, this reduced
expenditure will not impact growth. As we continue to lower our spend, internal competition for capital and
the quality of our projects will continue to rise.

This process will drive capital productivity to a new level, and further differentiate our investor proposition.
Given the capital intensity of our industry, the importance of this process should not be underestimated.

We continue to project an average rate of return in excess of 20% for our portfolio of high-quality
development options. So as we further improve capital productivity, we can choose either, to maintain our
rate of investment and create more value, or to invest less.

So, our track record over the last decade is impressive. Our progressive dividend remained unbroken and
increased at a compound annual growth rate of 17%.
We returned a total of $64 billion to shareholders, including $23 billion in the form of buybacks at less
than $25 per share.

And this generated a total shareholder return of 394%, against an AX200 total shareholder return of 221%.

It's clear that our strategy and strong balance sheet have worked well for our shareholders, and we intend
to extend our distinctive track record even in the face of low prices.
BHP Billiton is in great shape. We have many of the best ore bodies in the world; we operate sustainably;
look after our people in our communities; and we are successful increasing volumes and lowering costs.

We are confident that our productivity drive will be accelerated by the demerger, and expect cash flow will
be brought forward and enhanced to increase value and secure yield for you, our shareholders.

So to summarize, the key numbers: 23%, the projected two-year growth rate of our core portfolio; $4
billion, our new minimum target for productivity; $2.6 billion, our minimum cost out target; and 20%, the
return that we can exceed by investing in our best projects.

These are hard targets, and they cause us to inspire the right behaviors and drive the right culture for
delivery throughout the organization. And, they also allow you to confidently track our performance, and
hold us to account.

So that's all I had to say, but Mike's now going to present our views on the commodity markets. And then
we'll have some questions and answers, and then a break before the second half, over to you Mike.

MIKE HENRY, PRESIDENT, HSEC, MARKETING & TECHNOLOGY, BHP BILLITON PLC: Thank you,
Andrew; and once again, welcome, everyone.

So it's a pleasure to be here today to talk about the external factors relevant to our business.

Now, in London, I also spoke about our approach to continuous improvement. But in the interests of time
this morning, I'm not going to speak to that same topic; you're going to see more than enough by way of
similar themes and the same framework coming through in the presentations that both Dean and Peter will
give a little bit later on.

So just before I get started, let me point you to our usual disclaimer slide.
Now in my presentation, I'm going to focus on three things. I'll talk about global economic development and
growth; what this means for our commodities; and then finally, why we are uniquely placed to resource the
future, and in doing so create long-term value for our shareholders.

Now our diverse portfolio of commodities and our centralized marketing models support our ability to
conduct deep analysis into how the world is likely to evolve.

It's important to note though that while we use that ability to develop a well-researched and thought through
mid-case outlook, we also recognize that the world is inherently uncertain.

Page161of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Therefore, we test our portfolio and our investment decisions not just against that mid-case outlook, but
against different potential outcomes. We develop a range of scenarios that take into account key
uncertainties; macroeconomic factors; technology evolution; political developments; and governance
trends.

As an example, we recognize the uncertainty in the way that countries address climate change. We
consider a scenario in which a growing global acceptance of the science, in which climate change-related
events drive stronger responses; drive increased energy efficiency; and accelerate the deployment of low
emissions technology, resulting in a more-diverse global energy supply base with greater inclusion of
nuclear and renewables.

Even in that severely carbon-constrained world, our modeling indicates that our uniquely diversified
portfolio remains resilient, with potential upside for uranium; our high quality iron ore and metallurgical
coal; potash; and, likely, copper.

Now, our central view is consistent with what we've discussed previously. It assumes a degree of volatility
in the global economy in the near term, and strong global growth over the longer term, as the developing
economies further integrate on investment, and trade.
We see the US maintaining its relative position in global growth, China continues to successfully pursue
the reforms required to support their ongoing shift towards increased reliance on consumer demand, and
India pursues a stronger reform agenda, resulting in improved growth and increasing prominence.

Now, this scenario yields very healthy global growth in the long term of -- in the order of 4%, solid
commodity demand, but also ready access to resources. So we see low-cost supply keeping up with
demand.

Now, against that backdrop, the outlook for our products and our portfolio remains strong, notwithstanding
the short-term volatility that we're seeing in commodity markets.

As the industrialization and urbanization of the developing world continues, not only will ongoing
investment in infrastructure be required to support that process, but the accompanying productivity gains
will translate into higher incomes, which will drive even greater relative growth in consumer demand.
This will drive resilient demand for things like copper, energy, and food, even as demand for steel and
steel-making raw materials begins to slow.

Now although this evolution is not a given and some countries will likely not make the full transition, our
view is that in key jurisdictions there is sufficient signs of progress taking place in educational, legal, labor
and market reforms to give us a measure of confidence in our outlook.
For example, in China, there are clear steps being taken to rebalance the economy towards consumption,
a critical shift for sustainable growth in employment.

The authorities have been adopting a really encouraging degree of resolve in pursuing the same, in the
recent -- in the face of the recent slowing in the property market, the efforts to stimulate growth have been
measured, and, certainly, more measured than they've been historically.

We've also seen resilience in consumer spending, despite a slowdown in the broader economy.

Now the UN forecasts that the urbanized population of middle income economies will include another 1.7
billion people by 2050, supporting a larger variety of markets and goods, as low productivity work in rural
areas shifts to more productive and better paying jobs in the manufacturing and services sectors.

Now the impact of this growth in the middle class can be illustrated by what's been seen historically in other
economies. We've called out one example in the slide here; the bottom right-hand chart shows the increase
in penetration of light vehicles as incomes rise.

Global light duty vehicle penetration is forecast to increase by 30% per capita to 2030, led by developing
countries like China. Now, the additional vehicles in China alone will require another 20 million tonnes of
steel, 350,000 tonnes of copper, and so on, and so forth, not to mention the energy required to power
them.

It's not just vehicles, as air conditioner penetration in India grows from 10% to 40% to 2030; we expect to
see a six-fold increase in household energy consumption for this use.

Over the longer term, agricultural demand will also increase strongly, and this could play a growing role in
our portfolio by way of potash, as I'll speak to later in the presentation.

Page162of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Now, we have confidence that this transition towards a consumer and services sector-oriented economy
will continue, and that our portfolio is well suited to meet the commodity demand that will accompany it. But
I'll now turn to a few of the individual commodities, and I'm going to start with iron ore, and let me start with
where we've been.

As everyone in this room knows, over the past decade, or decade and a half we have seen a sharp
acceleration in growth in demand for iron ore. Supply initially struggled to keep pace with that growth in
demand, and we saw a resultant run up in prices. But iron ore is fundamentally not a scarce resource.

So not surprisingly, the high prices incentivized fresh capital into the industry. As a result, a supply of
relatively low cost, high-quality iron ore has been able to catch up with demand, and then some. As that's
happened, we've seen a displacement of high-cost supply off the top end of the cost curve, and a drop in
prices. This is something that we've experienced or seen, certainly, in the past few months. So, in other
words, markets have worked the way markets can be expected to work.
So what do we see ahead of us? Well, Chinese steel demand growth is slowing, as the economy
transitions from investment to consumption. We've spoken previously about our forecast for steel
production to peak at between 1 billion and 1.1 billion tonnes in the early to mid-2020s.

An increasing proportion of that steel will be for replacement steel, as much of the infrastructure and
equipment that's been added to the economy over the past decade begins to reach the end of its useful
life. As the steel in it gets released, more of the steel production will be met by way of scrap rather than by
way of pig iron, which is what requires iron ore.

It's this combination of slowing steel growth and more of that steel being met by scrap that can be expected
to lead to a decline in the demand for seaborne iron ore from the peak that it will reach in the early to
mid-2020s.

This is consistent with the outlook that we've spoken about for the past few years, and that outlook has
been integral to our commitment to maximize returns from our already-installed infrastructure and
resources.

Now, our margins, over the long run, will be supported by the structural advantage that we enjoy in terms of
our proximity to tidewater; our low strip ratio; and our position relative to North Asia, where most of the
steel demand will continue to be.
Our metallurgical coal operations have been focused on recapturing our competitive position. Dean and
the team there have achieved much by way of embedding cost and volume efficiencies, as Dean will speak
to later.

At the same time, other suppliers have also rapidly improved their productivity to reduce unit cost, and
there's been an overall compression in the cost curve, and we're seeing displacement of some high-cost
production from that market.

However, as margins have compressed, high-cost supply has initially been stickier in this market than it's
been in iron ore. We have seen marginal producers announce capacity curtailments of over 20 million
tonnes per annum this calendar year, some of which are yet to fully take effect.

Now, it's likely that it's going to take some time for more high-cost production to work its way out of this
market, as some of the less-sustainable steps taken to reduce cost begin to unwind, or as those under
greater financial pressure elect to step back.

Now, over the longer term, we expect demand to be supported by steel growth in developing economies
outside of China.

For example, the Indian growth story is really starting to gain traction, with the election of a new
government there that's committed to improving infrastructure and to supporting the private sector in
achieving sustained growth.
An investment in steel capacity in India is gaining momentum, with an additional 17 million tonnes of
annual steel capacity committed, and to be commissioned by 2016 alone.
Unlike in iron ore, India does not have indigenous resources of high-quality hard coking coal and,
therefore, they're going to need to meet their needs via imports.
We are well positioned to supply this growth in metallurgical coal demand. Our Queensland coal assets
are characterized by the quality of their premium hard coking coals, and a resource base that can support

Page163of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.production for decades. These assets have access to well-established infrastructure and are in close
proximity to both traditional and growth markets.

The outstanding work that Dean and the team have done there to become more productive now returns us
to the low end of the cost curve, as Andrew mentioned, securing our competitive advantage in this
commodity.
Now, turning to copper. The copper story remains very strong. Demand for copper is expected to
increase from 27 million to 40 million tonnes by 2030. This will be driven by electrical and building
construction, which together comprise around half of overall copper demand; as well as production of
consumer goods, including household appliances and automobiles.
And whilst China will remain the single most important driver of demand, we do expect to see consistent
growth in other regions.
Now, on the supply side, while scrap will grow by 30% to 2030, significant fresh primary supply of copper
will still be required to meet demand growth.

Compounding the increased requirement for supply to meet outright growth and demand is the grade
decline, which is going to impact the current supply base. That's expected to take about 5 million tonnes
off of the current installed capacity to 2030.
The cost base in South America, which is the largest exporter of copper, will be further impacted by the
increased need for desalinated water, and increased ore hardness, which will lead to higher power
consumption.

This combination of the need for greenfield capacity and a structurally-challenged cost base bode well for
copper prices longer term.
So on to energy. The outlook for energy is also robust. As the world's economies and population continue
to grow, more people will gain access to electricity and living standards will rise, increasing energy
demand.
We expect primary energy demand to grow by around 40% to 2030. Energy demand growth will be
strongest in Asia, which is forecast to comprise 46% of global primary energy demand in 2030. China and
India alone will make up almost half of the growth between now and then.

Demand for all of the fossil fuels is expected to continue to grow over that period. And this is directionally
consistent with the views of other globally-recognized forecasting bodies.
Even in the more conservative new policy scenario of the International Energy Agency, demand for
thermal coal falls as a percent of the energy mix, but continues to grow strongly in absolute terms.
Absolute demand for natural gas in that scenario grows by 40%, and demand for oil grows by 12%.
Now, that figure for oil might sound like a low number, but we need to keep in mind that the decline curves
in oil are such that a lot of new production will need to be brought to market just to stand still. So the
apparent demand, or the need for new capacity, will be much higher.
Continued global development depends on access to reliable and affordable energy, and connecting new
users and improving quality of electricity supply will support strong global energy demand.
Now, the chart on the right here gives you a different lens on how we expect energy supply and demand to
evolve. It illustrates our mid-case outlook but, more importantly, it helps to illustrate one of the factors that
gives rise to higher than usual uncertainty when trying to call exactly how countries will meet their energy
demand, and what the exact mix will look like.
Energy mix will be determined not only by the usual underlying direct economics, but also by how
countries shape their response to climate change and by their security of supply considerations. These
factors are going to be particularly important in Asia, given the region's continued development and its
strongly increasing reliance on imported energy, as can be seen in the chart.

Just to be clear, we accept this uncertainty. Just like we test our aggregate portfolio against a range of
different scenarios, we do the same with our energy portfolio. Our unique diversity of energy commodities
both de-risks our portfolio and provides us with attractive growth options under multiple different scenarios.

Finally, on to agricultural demand and fertilizer or potash. As I mentioned earlier, population growth and
greater economic prosperity in the developing world will increase the demand for agriculture.

Page164of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Plants need potassium to grow. As crops are harvested, potassium is removed from the land, and it
ultimately needs to be replenished. Potash is the primary means for doing so.

At a global level, major grain demand is expected to increase by 20% to 30% by 2030. This will require the
development of additional productive land, or increasing the productivity and yields from existing farmland.
We believe arable land availability will become an increasing challenge going forward, as suitable arable
land is already constrained and environmental sustainability must be taken into account.

Therefore, increasing yield or intensity of crop production is also going to be required. And potash demand
will not only benefit from the base increase in agricultural activity, it will also be critical to deliver this
required increase in crop yields.

Now, in the long term, we are confident in the demand for potash, which we expect to grow by between 2%
and 3% per annum to 2030. With major crop-producing regions, such as China, India, Southeast Asia,
Brazil and the US making up around three-quarters of that growth in demand.

Global potash demand saw a 7% rebound in 2013, and is expected to grow by around 9% this year, to 58
million tonnes.

Now, on the supply side, the market is in oversupply, and we can expect it to remain so for the foreseeable
future. As announced, brownfield expansions and the first phase of three greenfields projects are
completed.

However, the current suite of brownfield expansions really represent the last of the low-hanging fruit for
incumbent producers. Many of these mines have reached the limits of their shaft or ventilation capacity,
and we forecast that new capacity is going to be required by the end of this decade.

Greenfield projects, like Jansen, will be very well placed to compete, given that even where future
brownfield expansions are technically feasible, they will be more akin to greenfield projects requiring new
shafts and associated infrastructure.
So with our broad exposure to iron ore, metallurgical coal, copper, the full range of energy commodities
and potentially potash, and with a long-life resource endowment in those commodities, we are well placed
to respond to changes in demand across a range of scenarios.

Our core portfolio provides us with decades, and in some instances over a century, of inventory across
these multiple commodities, allowing us to choose when and where to expand our operations to maximize
value.

Our concentrated, largely OECD footprint lends itself well to low cost, low-risk expansions, as demand
grows and to driving world-class productivity in our operations with resultant higher relative margins. This
is an unrivalled position.

So in conclusion, while we remain positive and confident about our outlook, our testing against multiple
divergent scenarios makes us equally confident that our strategy and portfolio are resilient to the
uncertainty inherent in trying to call the future.

In a continuously-evolving external environment, we remain well positioned to continue resourcing the
future and to delivering long-term value for shareholders.
DEAN DALLA VALLE, PRESIDENT, COAL, BHP BILLITON PLC: Well, good morning, and welcome to the
second part of our briefing today. My name is Dean Dalla Valle and I'm the coal business President.

It's great to be here today to provide an overview of the work that we have been doing to deliver against
our strategy, as I outlined to many of you in May last year.

Broadly, our strategy involves continuing to improve our safety performance; engaging employees; driving
productivity at the bottom [link] of our operations to global benchmarks; and reducing our absolute costs.
As a result of that, I'm pleased to report that we have delivered $2.4 billion of embedded costs in volume
efficiencies since 2012. And, all of our operations are cash positive today.

As with the earlier presentations, I draw your attention to our disclaimer. And equally important is the
statement of our resources, which is used throughout this presentation and noted for your reference.
As Mike explained earlier, we remain confident about the outlook for both metallurgical and energy coal.
However, as you all know, the current market conditions are challenging. It has been essential that we
focus on the things that we control to re-establish our cost-competitive position.

Page165of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.With the compression of the cost curve and reducing margins, our volume and cost-saving initiatives have
been essential to ensure all our operations are cash positive.
Today, I will highlight the key focus areas for the coal business, achievements to date and some of the
initiatives underway to deliver even more.

Continuous improvement in a health, safety, environmental and community performance is critical to the
success of our business. While we are aggressively pursuing productivity improvement, our work is
predicated on continuing to improve HSEC performance.

Our priorities are to continue improving safety by rapidly improving our ability to manage material risk. For
example, one of our priority material risks is the interaction between light and heavy vehicles at our mines.
No doubt many of you close to the industry have seen some of the tragic events of late where operations
get this wrong. Multiple fatalities can happen very quickly.

We have implemented detailed plans, which are lowering the risk across all of our sites. These are
site-based; they're routinely measured and tested all the way up to Andrew.

Equally important is the work that we are doing within our communities. The picture you see here captures
one of our community projects at our Mount Arthur mine in New South Wales; it was actually a finalist in
our global HSEC awards just last week, which Andrew presided over.

This is the Warrae Wanni Pathways to School Program. This partnership, with a local public school in the
Hunter Valley, supports pre-school age children to attend an early-learning program to help them transition
successfully to school. It is particularly focused on local aboriginal and disadvantaged children.

This is just one of the many health and safety environment community projects that we have developed.
Our teams are so proud to do this. No doubt, we've seen mining and coal mining in particular, come
under lots of pressure and scrutiny.

The ability for people to work in these businesses and actually do these projects bring great benefits for the
people inside the operation, but also around the operations, to have lasting impact is just a wonderful
thing for people to be able to do, and it really fits well with the charter of our organization.
Coal is a key pillar of BHP Billiton. It's accounted for 17% of our production over the last five years. We
have made the material contribution to the Group through both EBIT and cash flow. However, as shown on
the bottom chart, the last two years have been particularly challenging.

Given market circumstances, we have been running incredibly hard to re-establish our cost-competitive
advantage and we are making great progress, as you will see.
The success of the coal business is underpinned by a high-quality resource base that can support decades
of production. Note, the legend size the bubble, which represents 1 billion tonnes resource down the
bottom left-hand side.
Specifically, three-quarters of the production forecast in our Queensland coal operations is premium
quality, hard coking coal. Along with well-established infrastructure and proximity to traditional and growth
markets, this gives us a competitive advantage against emerging coal basins.
Following the proposed de-merger, the BHP Billitoncoal business will be predominantly focused on the
major resource basins in New South Wales and Central Queensland, as shown as the large orange
bubbles on the east coast of Australia. Again, note the size of those bubbles compared to a 1 billion tonne
resource on the legend.
For those of you who attended the Queensland coal tour in May 2013, you will recall that we set out a very
simple, clear strategy to maximize productivity through the utilization of installed capacity and to
sustainably lower our cost base.
I'm pleased to be able to report today that this has resulted in a reduction in met coal unit costs by 37%
and energy coal costs by 21% over the last two years. We have done this by identifying bottlenecks and
value drivers at each operation across the value chain. We are focusing on benchmarking productivity;
renegotiating supply agreements; eliminating waste; and engaging our people to improve productivity.
This is how we achieved cost and volume efficiencies of $2.4 billion since fiscal year 2012, representing
over one-third of the Company's savings, with the majority coming from sustainable cost efficiencies. And
we are not done yet, as we'll show you today.

Page166of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.In conjunction with Mike's team, we're also leveraging our marketing expertise to maximize margins. Our
marketing team is a major contributor to coal's productivity agenda. Transparent pricing and promoting the
technical properties of our high-quality coal ensures full recognition of their value and use.
If we look at the chart, it shows the prices for premium, low-volatile coal we realize compared with the
index. The orange dots represent our sales and the grey dots the sales of our peers.

On average, we outperform our competitors and receive above-index pricing. We also optimize the
end-to-end supply chain, leading to lower rail and port costs, higher throughput and reduce demurrage.

Driving labor productivity is one of the major elements in our strategy. As you can see, labor is around 50%
of our costs base.

Two data points I would like to emphasize in this slide; we have lowered our labor costs by 23% last year
and achieved a 29% increase in material moved per employee.

Our high-performance culture has been key to achieving these reductions. We're engaging with employees
at all levels to ensure that every person, every day starts with a sense of purpose and a target, is involved
in the process of identifying improvement and elimination of waste, and receives regular feedback on how
they and their teams are performing. No different to how you would coach an elite sporting team. And that's
what our teams are; they're people who are competing on a global basis every day.

Achieving diversity in our workforce has also been key to enhancing our labor productivity. This includes
diversity by location, by source, and by gender. We are very proud of the 25% female workforce at Daunia
and the Caval Ridge mines, achieving the aspiration that we set out for ourselves.

All the improvements are facilitated by our systems and processes, which enable internal benchmarking
across our operations. This creates a very healthy competition.

So let me get a little bit more specific and detailed about our work. The two charts here show that we have
achieved material increase in both our truck fleet and wash-plant utilization, which are our bottlenecks, and
this is over the last 12 months.

However, our aspirations are high. We are aiming to meet, or exceed, global benchmark performance for
our key equipment over the coming years.

Specifically for trucks, we are targeting global benchmark performance of 6,000 hours per annum,
excluding queue time; that is not recognizing the time that the truck is waiting round for a shovel to load it.
In our wash plants, we are targeting benchmark performance of 8,000 hours per annum. I'm sure I don't
need to remind the highly productive people in the audience here today that there are only 8,760 hours in
one year. So 8,000 hours is truly a high benchmark.

With our common systems and processes in a simplified business, rapid replication of best practice will
also be a significant source of advantage for coal. So let's dive a little deeper into productivity. We have
lots of great examples of productivity improvement across our business, but I'll talk about three today.

Let me start at the Peak Downs' mine in the Bowen Basin. The team there has delivered an outstanding
performance with an 8% improvement in production to 9.8 million tonnes last year, a record for that mine,
and that's been running for quite a while. And, annual operating costs have been reduced by 18% in the
same year.
Today, the coal preparation plant, which is the site bottleneck, is currently operating at over 7,500 hours'
production per year. So it's approaching our 8,000 hour target.

So how do we achieve this? It was done by detailed, bottom-up, analysis of the critical path, identifying
areas of lost opportunities for improvement, engagement of the workforce, and use of measurement and
visualization of the process. So everybody was engaged and involved.

The second case study is about optimizing the mine plan at the Poitrel mine, also in the Bowen Basin. So
what you are seeing here, in the picture, is how we've redesigned our mining process to optimize the
amount of coal we extract from the Poitrel seam.
So on the picture, you can see the direction of the mining from top to bottom. You can see we started strip
11 in this process. We got up to strip 14.
The chart shows the improvements we've made as mining has progressed. The red area shows where
sub-optimal blasting practices have previously impacted up to two meters of mineable coal.

Page167of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The green area is where we have implemented more accurate blasting, resulting in no more than 20
centimeters of coal being impacted. This is a great improvement, which equates to less washing, less
waste, and significant cost savings. This is achieved by improved mine planning, more accurate geological
models, and, of course, being well communicated and engaged, so that everyone knew the plan, and
everyone acted on the plan every day.

The final example I'd like to share is the significant improvements in productivity at Mount Arthur in New
South Wales. A cross-functional team with representatives from production, mine planning, and dispatch,
underpinned by benchmarking clinical path analysis, identified opportunities to improve utilization, and
increase productivity.

This included improvements in truck dispatching; faster driver changes by having drive-through bays;
improved mine planning; and focus on payload. Through these measures, we will be able to reduce loading
fleets from 12 trucks to 10 trucks, and reduce the trucking fleet from 88 trucks to 64 trucks over the next
year.
All these case studies highlight the sustainable productivity improvements our coal business is
implementing and embedding where it can in all the other operations rapidly.

So hopefully these three examples, plus the previous one, give you a sense of the great work that's going
on right throughout the business. And each of the mines, if you visited, would have two or three examples
of equal gravity that they'd be extremely proud of.

So after a long period of significant cost inflation driven by a headed market for labor, consumables and
accommodation, we have had to work tirelessly to rebase our costs.
We have banked almost $400 million in supply savings over two years, and are targeting a similar result
this year. So this means a combined savings of about $750 million, since fiscal year 2012, will be
achieved.

So how do we do this? Obviously, it's a mix of traditional reviews, and looking at some more innovative
ways about doing it.

Rapid tendering is a good example of more innovative ways. This involves electronic auctioning process
where we have proven results. We have seen a 50% lowering in input price for some of our consumables.
And it's something we're now starting to institutionalize across all of our businesses. And it's one of the new
approaches. There are many, but it's a good example of what we're actually doing today, and is realizing
results.

And being in the great town of Sydney, we all know how the Sydney Harbor Bridge is painted. Our supply
process is the same. You start at one end; you paint it. When you've finished that, you basically start again.
So we just continually do this, and continue to delayer our costs.

So, so far I've told you about productivity; people; equipment; supply; marketing costs. So what's next?
Despite having already embedded significant productivity-led gains and cost efficiencies over the last two
years, there is more to come.
At Queensland Coal, we are targeting a further 10% reduction this fiscal year, bringing costs below $90 per
tonne. Remember in May last year, when some of you were in Queensland, there was questions and
challenges: could we get below $100 per tonne? Some were bullish, some were bearish. But we're now at
$90 per tonne we're forecasting to beat.
In New South Wales Energy Coal, we are forecasting a further 15% reduction in unit costs over the next
two fiscal years, bringing costs below $45 per tonne. You'll note the footnote there that this is after an
exchange rate of AUD1 per $0.91. So we know we've moved on. So there's actually further upside. But
we've held it at AUD1 per $0.91 so it's consistent with our other presentations.

Again, our plans will be achieved through targeting global benchmarks on our productivity, crystallizing
further cost reductions, and leveraging our common systems and processes right across all of our
businesses.
For fiscal year 2015 we expect to achieve record metallurgical coal production of 47 million tonnes. Our
increase in volume is from maximizing the utilization of existing capacity, including our newly-completed
Caval Ridge and Daunia mines operating at full capacity.
Our energy coal volumes are expected to remain steady. While we're seeing strong operational
performance at Mount Arthur, there will be lower volumes at Navajo Coal due to reduced power-plant
demand. And Cerrejon is producing at guidance, with upside with the right conditions.

Page168of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.As you can see, we have successfully delivered projects in our pipeline. Most recently Caval Ridge was
delivered three months ahead of schedule, and $160 million below budget.
The port expansion associated with Cerrejon P40 delivered first coal on schedule. However, as previously
communicated, we will remain constrained at 35 million tonnes in the medium term.
Hay Point expansion is nearing completion to its 55 million tonne capacity.

So with our growth pipeline behind us, going forward our capital expenditure will largely be in minor and
sustaining capital, as Andrew has articulated many times, in publicly and to me privately many times.

Our productivity and cost work will also directly impact the efficiency of our capital spend going forward. So
productivity, obviously, we'll -- largely operationally focus, we'll have massive spin-offs on to our capital
spend as well. And you're seeing some of that flow through major capital and minor capital projects.

So I've given you an overview of how we're delivering against our strategy. As Andrew outlined this
morning, there is also significant opportunity for simplification in BHP Billiton as a result of the demerger.

With fewer assets we'll be able to focus on our core capabilities and we can leverage our common systems
and processes to deliver continuous improvement and accelerate productivity gains.
The demerger will result in a reduction of core operations for coal from 19 to 12. As a result we are
focusing on understanding how we can further simplify our business and the way we operate.
We intend on extracting synergies from the commonality of our fleet and the concentration of operations,
including centralization of maintenance, analysis and improvement. We'll also review functional activities to
further streamline for the simplified portfolio.

So you can see from these results that our strategy is delivering. We are driving ongoing improvement in
HSEC performance, while we are aggressively pursuing productivity.

We have a large high-quality resource base and our early decisions to close high-cost capacity, and our
extensive productivity and efficiency work have re-established our competitive advantage.

Volume growth will come from successful ramp up of our completed projects, but mainly from our focused
approach to productivity. Even in this tough environment all our assets are cash positive, which leverages
us for margin growth and positions us well for the future.

We're not stopping here. We can further simplify post demerger and pursue even more efficiency across
the coal portfolio. So that's the exciting part of the story.
With that, I'll hand over to another exciting story and Peter Beaven will talk about copper. Thank you.

PETER BEAVEN, CFO, BHP BILLITON PLC: Thank you, sir. Thanks, Dean. My name is Peter Beaven, as
many of you know, prior to my appointment as CFO, I was the President of Copper and it's really in that
context that I'm here to present to you today.

But before we begin we have the usual disclaimers, all three pages of them.
What I'm going to do is I'm going to start with an overview of the copper industry and outline some of the
structural challenges that we all face. Mike mentioned a few of them; I'll try and bring out a few more details
in that regard. Those challenges, of course, at the same time make the long-term market fundamentals for
copper very attractive.

Importantly, I'll detail some of the solutions that we're implementing to overcome those challenges and how
we plan to create significant shareholder value from, really, essentially two things: maintaining our low-cost
operation, driving what we have today as hard as we can. And then secondly, growing our business, firstly,
from debottlenecking; low capital intensity; super higher returns; greater projects; and then, finally, larger --
more material growth projects.

Our productivity efforts alone are delivering substantial unit cost savings; there's more to come as you
heard from Dean.

Beyond the enormous effort that's required simply to stand still in this industry, we also have a
differentiated growth story. Near term, several exceptionally lower capital-intensive growth options that will
generate returns significantly exceeding 20%; and longer term, we really have a world class resource base
that will provide us with a compelling suite of growth projects.

Page169of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.As Andrew mentioned earlier, operating in a safe and sustainable manner is what matters most to us.
We've got a strong safety track record in copper. Our TRIF is consistently below 3; that's a very good
number in the mining world.
Escondida, the world's largest copper mine, has a number of very large complex projects underway, a
huge amount of contractors, therefore, on the site along with our own operation employees. It's TRIF, at
the moment, is 1.7. So I think this is indicative of a business that's in control.

The sector performance is underpinned by a material risk management process that focuses on
establishing critical controls; those controls being owned by the line, the people on the ground and on a
daily basis, in the field, verifying their effectiveness using a simple and effective tablet-based system.

Sustainability is also a key consideration in all of our decisions. As many of you will know, two of the
biggest challenges that face the mining industry, in fact Chile in total, are really power and water. Our
communities in Chile and, in fact, all across our operations, like all communities in the world, are
demanding and expecting different solutions to the problems that we've faced in the past.

So our stance is to react positively, get on the front foot. We fundamentally believe that we need to be
aligned with our communities. We need to be in line with our community, because we need a license to
operate; and we need that license to operate to run on a multiple decades' basis. I don't believe that as
society changes then we should sit and hang back and wait and be pulled in the direction of that society.

So our new desalinization plant at Escondida will substantially reduce non-renewable water usage. It will
enhance, obviously, the sustainable use of those [Aquafix] that we currently draw the majority of our water.

We need more power to operate an expanded Escondida and smelts and, in fact, to pump that water up to
Escondida. So we have Korean partners, they're building a 500 megawatt gas-fired plant in Mejillones,
close to Antofagasta. That will help us to move from 100% reliance in coal to a 50/50 split between coal
and gas.
In so doing, we can reduce our emissions, our carbon emissions by 1.5 million tonnes per annum, which is
obviously very, very significant.
In the last five years, we contributed over $200 million to social programs in our communities. In Australia,
Olympic Dam is supporting programs to improve employment prospects, enterprise development and local
indigenous communities.

In Chile, we established the CREO and Antofagasta organization. CREO means to believe, so to believe in
Antofagasta. So what we did is we put together with civic society, with regional government, with federal
government, and with the other private companies in the region an organization that will create a
comprehensive long-term plan to make Antofagasta one of the most livable cities in Chile by 2035. And for
those of you who have been to Antofagasta you know that's quite a challenge.

This year I was very proud, I was very proud, that we were given by ICARE, which is a think tank, which
essentially is set up by the business community of Chile. ICARE gave us the company of the year, many
of these things.

But in 50 years this organization has been an existing -- an existence and giving out this award. This is only
the second time a foreign company has ever been given it. They gave it us because of obviously how we
run our business, and how we have developed and have contributed to the development of Chile. That's
really significant when you get your peers in another country to recognize what -- how we do things as well
as what we do.
So given the scale of our operations and our resources, we'll continue to be an important contributor to our
communities for decades to come.
So this foundation of safe sustainable operations has underpinned exceptional operating and financial
performance. Very quickly let me just remind you some of these numbers.
Last five years copper contributed 21% of BHP Billiton's production. Underlying EBIT margin, 42%; we
invested $13 billion in our business and that achieved a net operating return -- a return on net operating
assets of 34%, money well spent. So copper truly is one of BHP's key pillars.

Let me just step back and look more closely what are the success factors that we need to achieve in this
business, in copper in particular; maybe, actually, just in any commodity. So, do you have the best ore
bodies? Are you low cost? Do you operate in stable countries? Do you have attractive -- a suite of
attractive high-return growth prospects?

Page170of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.I think if you tick one or two of those boxes you've got a [shout for it]. But honestly, we can say that we tick
all four of those boxes.
We have a simple portfolio, world class ore bodies, concentrated in stable countries. All of our -- with the
exception of Peru, in fact, all of our countries are OECD, interesting.

They underpin our low cost position. They contain many of the industries' best development options, I'll tell
you more about those in a second. With our productivity agenda, they continue to improve every day.
Our four assets in Australia, Chile and Peru contributed 1.2 million tonnes of attributable copper
production in FY14. That makes us the fourth largest copper producer in the world currently.
I think these assets also form the largest copper resource base in the industry and, in many cases, with
potential mine lives in excess of 100 years.

We have a competitive cost position: Antamina, Escondida firmly placed in the first quartile; Spence in the
second. Olympic Dam, well, it continues to move down the cost curve with significantly more productivity
gains to come and, again, I'll speak about that in a moment.

Steep tail in the industry cost curve is interesting. It does support attractive margins for our low-cost assets,
but we've seen other commodities with a steep tail. So what I think is important is that we actually believe
this one is sustainable.
Mike's already outlined the existing copper supply base will be unable to meet increased primary demand.
So grade decline in the big porphyries, that account for much of the world's copper production, and
continued demand growth will require additional mined tonnes to balance the market. Those additional
tonnes to balance the market have to come from higher-cost resources.

The industry faces considerable headwinds in addition to this in meeting the market demand for these
additional tonnes, because the grade decline means that we'll have to move more tonnes simply to stay the
same, and productivity in moving those tonnes is very variable.

What we see in Chile and in Peru, it's about the same numbers, is the productivity per person, in terms of
tonnes moved per person per year, is about 50% of that -- of comparable operations in United States and
Canada. These are Wood Mack's numbers. Actually, we did our own study; pretty much the same.

This lack of productivity is exacerbated these days by the labor cost inflation.

Other input costs, important input costs also rising. Cost base in South America will be affected by the
increasing need for desalinated water; higher power consumption required to pump this water to mines
located at high altitudes. Power cost per megawatt hour in Chile are already significantly higher than other
major copper-producing countries, such as Peru and the United States and, in fact, here in Australia.

Permitting, it's getting harder all the time. We have to give more commitment; takes longer.

So within this context, we believe that we are performing very well. We believe we will continue to do so
and we have a portfolio of assets of unrivaled quality.

We have a differentiated approach to productivity that's producing great results and capital-efficient growth
options to go with that. So we believe we're very well positioned to outperform.

Let's have a look at some of these aspects in more detail. First things we've got to do: make sure you get
the most out of the assets you currently have; the capital that you and our shareholders have given us.

So the first aim: get the most out of every piece of installed capacity, that is, most production, so ensure
maximum throughput at the bottleneck. Like you heard from Dean, we're on exactly the same journey,
leveraging common systems, processes central to our operating model to underpin continuous
performance improvements.

We're focused on the amount of time our infrastructure and equipment is available; how much of the time
it's utilized; the rate; the variability. These are very basic things, but they require day-in/day-out focus.

Maximizing bottleneck utilization has the potential add more value than anything else we do. Essentially, it
doesn't come with a huge investment of capital and it produces a tonne that carries a margin with it.

Our focus on the basics over the past three years has allowed us to increase bottleneck throughput to
record or near-record level at all the assets in FY14.

Page171of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Record material mined at Olympic Dam. The shaft -- the lifting capacity is essential the bottleneck there;
22% (sic - see slide 73, "9%") increase in mill throughput at Escondida, the sags -- the mills are the
bottleneck.

At stacking -- at Spence, processing and stacking, that's the bottleneck, we've seen a 13% increase in that
in FY14 to the second-highest ever, just a smidgen off the record. At Antamina, actually the primary
crusher is the bottleneck interestingly enough and that is absolutely going at record rates.

At Escondida, we systematically moved -- takes time, Andrew said it. These changes, they may seem
small, but they take time. We systematically moved the modeling from crushing, conveying to the
concentrators and now, we've hit the next bottleneck, which is water.

But we also have to look beyond the bottleneck, obviously. There's a whole lot of operation and efficiency
gains that we really need to look after. So here we benchmarked the performance of our equipment
internally/externally; the transparency of the results enables the pursuit of best-in-class performance; and
our productivity programs have identified several initiatives to further improve performance across the
business.

Example, Escondida: optimized meal break, shift changeover practices combined with increased training
and development resulted in an 11% increase in truck utilization over the last 15 months.
Escondida, we run more than 150 trucks. We move about 1.3 million tonnes of dirt a day. So you can
image, those changes, 11% increase in utilization, it has a big impact on your bottom line.
Our focus on productivity will support our ability to achieve FY15 copper production guidance of 1.8
million tonnes. That is notwithstanding the recent two-day strike and the significant water and power
availability issues/challenges that have constrained production so far this year.
Sometimes you get lots of numbers on productivity and these are big billions here and billions there, but,
hey, does it actually hit the bottom line? So here, what are we going to say? The productivity initiatives that
we're talking about, they're directly translating into lower unit costs.

In order to offset grade decline, we're not only moving more tonnes, but we're doing so at a lower cost. Of
the three years to the end of FY15, we anticipate a 25% reduction in unit costs across the total copper
business. This is despite an expected 13% increase in material moved over the same timeframe.

We're achieving the substantial reduction through supply savings, strategic insourcing with contract activity,
improved labor productivity, reducing consumable expenditure, simplifying our functional support structure;
same as what you've heard from all of my colleagues.

Escondida alone, we expect FY15 unit costs to decline by 30% compared to FY12.
So, as I mentioned earlier, industry is characterized by a big copper porphyries. They have variable
grades; that's how God created them and where he put them was where, right now, we have water and
power constraints, so Escondida's no exception.

Following several years of strong grades from FY12, we're again faced with significant near-term decline in
grades with the resultant reduction in volumes. However, we have been preparing for this for some time.
So we expect FY16 to represent the lower point in production for the remainder of the decade, and I'll tell
you how we're going to get over this grade decline.

First of all, our productivity initiative will offset some of the impact of lower grades. As evidenced in the
top-right chart on this slide, shows the FY16 production well above FY12 in spite of that low grade. And in
the bottom right-hand chart, shows that we expect to hold FY16 unit costs approximately 20% below FY12.

But we still need to do more. So following the commissioning of OGD1 in 2015, we now have created for
ourselves the option to extend the life of the Los Colorados concentrator, the original concentrator at
Escondida. And if you recall, OGP1, the premise of OGP1, the new concentrator we're building, was that
we would build OGP1 and then we would demolish Los Colorados and get to the ore that sat underneath it.

So we've created the option to extend the life of the Los Colorados, enabling us to run three concentrators
with a resultant 70% uplift in throughput compared to the 220,000 tonne per day we achieved in FY14. The
improved mine design will still enable us to access high-grade ore as we had originally envisaged from
those pushbacks directly adjacent to Los Colorados and the truck shop that sits next to it, and we'll reach
that in the early 2020s.

That will return our mill head grade to 1% from the early 2020s. Again, I want to stress, in line with our
original projections.

Page172of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Escondida water supply project, EWS, is a critical component of our three-concentrator strategy. We need
water to run that additional concentrator. So we balance our increasing water requirements with our
commitment to ensure a sustainable use of [Aquafix].

Against that backdrop, following the commission of EWS, in calendar year 2017, with three concentrators
installed, Escondida can maintain production for a decade without the need for any major capital
investment.

Let me give you a few more details on the Los Colorados Extension; we think we have the opportunity to
extend the life out to financial year 2030 and this option has been created by mine plan optimization; a
super job by our mine planners in Escondida. But -- so the changes, we're executing a series of smaller
pushbacks with steeper pit gradients. In so doing -- so we're going to cut that pit wall right up against the
existing infrastructure. But we can do that safely and we can access therefore the high grade ore that is
adjacent to the concentrator without needing to demolish it.
We can process ore from the high-grade zone adjacent to Los Colorados in the early 2020s in -- consistent
with the original mine plan. And we can potentially achieve combined mill throughput capacity 375,000
tonnes per day. It's just a huge operation.

LCE will require only modest, low-risk investment, essentially just to construct a new crusher. The current
crushing and conveying system will continue to feed Laguna Seca and, of course, it will be diverted to feed
OGP1. So we will have to build a new crusher.

Water supply will be largely met through desalinization, as well as from existing resources. And a result,
we're planning full ramp-up of Los Colorados or re-ramp-up, if you like, to coincide with EWS
commissioning. Ore from LCE will be the highest grade material that is currently feeding sulfide leach.

It does make sense; so we're diverting it from sulfide leach. It makes sense. Why? Because if you put that
ore to sulfide leach, you get 35% recovery -- around about 35%. Of course, if you put it into a concentrator
you're going to get more than 80%.

Sulfide leach will continue post-LCE, albeit obviously at a marginally lower grade, because essentially
we're just bringing the average grade down of the material we feel to sulfide leach. In addition, it will
probably have some lower tonnes in a few years, some of the years in the future, because we'll be using
trucks to continue to feed the concentrators at full capacity.

We still have to optimize our material handling approach between the concentrators and sulfide leach, and
we continue to study that, but that's our current view at the moment.

Three-concentrator strategy; incredibly low capital intensity option providing exceptional returns.
Essentially, you get a new concentrator for the price of a crusher; aren't too many projects like that in the
world of copper.

Also postpones the requirement to invest in a new concentrator. If we ever wanted to build OGP2, we can
keep pushing that out and it also happens to save $100 million in previously-planned demolition costs of
Los Colorados.

And will avoid the need to replace the truck shop, because the truck shop was also going to go, because it
sits next to. In an operation the size of Escondida, when you're running 150 trucks, truck shops are not
cheap.

Again, following the commissioning of EWS, three concentrators installed; we'll be able to maintain
production for a decade without the need for any major capital investment. Currently in concept study,
expected to move to pre-feas first half of CY15. Subject to internal approval, commissioning can be
achieved by FY18, simultaneously with the availability of order from EWS; so the timing works.

Just a few more words on water and power. Water supply is the bottleneck at Escondida. FY16 is the most
impacted year. We are addressing this in the short term. We are constructing a new water pipeline to
replace the existing one that carries water from the 500 liter second de-sal plant in Colosso, and that will
allow us to run that at full capacity. It's not quite running at full capacity at the moment.
Then, as we say, EWS, 2,500 liters per second de-sale facility on schedule for commissioning in calendar
year 2017. Once we get EWS we'll -- basically, with LCE in our operation will be getting over 80% of our
water from non-fresh water sources.

There is going to be higher costs associated with that. Because it's de-sal water obviously it's more
expensive than taking it from the [sellers], but that is going to be much more than mitigated by the

Page173of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.increased throughput that it enables. Essentially, it's not a -- this is just to maintain the sustainability of that
site.

We have to get more power and we've got to get that at a competitive cost. We have caused the
development of a 570 megawatt gas fired plant; I did mention that. The Korean consortium, (inaudible) are
Samsung. It's under a long-term contract with us.

We put actually the gas in and we take the power out, and it will help us to achieve full security of supply
for power for Escondida's existing operations and its committed projects and, in fact, it also has expansion
options which will be good for LCE for Spence or anything else that we've got going in the region. So we're
very happy with that. That project's underway at the moment, is on time and on budget.

Let me -- the next bottlenecking story. We're currently executing a low capital-intensity program of projects;
they're designed to increase the copper production at Olympic Dam by approximately 50,000 tonnes. So
we're hitting 230,000/235,000 tonnes per year rate.

We're doing this two ways; one we need to get better grade. We've suffered a 20% rate decline over the
last 10 years, because we've been sitting in the northern part of the ore body and as you get to the edges
of it, Dean knows better than I, then the grade starts to fall away. We need to get back into the southern
area where those originally high grades are. So that's where we're going to develop.
Second thing we're just going to spend probably about a couple of hundred million dollars on incremental
de-bottlenecking investment on the surface, essentially around the smelter in particular; a little bit on the
concentrator. But that would then match the 235,000 tonnes that sits as capacity in the refinery, and that's
currently underway.

Again, a very, very high grade, high quality and low-cost expansion opportunity.

Spence. The bottleneck is the tankhouse 200,000 tonnes per year. We have a recovery optimization
project. This has been underway -- we have been studying leaching in our research facilities for a decade
or so. Finally, this is a culmination -- we have lots of good work commonality but here's a culmination
[that's] really good, I think, which is that we have now got the potential to offset the grade decline that
Spence follows.

Like everything else, we will be able to increase recoveries by 14% from FY16. We will achieve that by the
acceleration of heap leach kinetics; increased utilization of the leach pads; those things together.

We should be able to reach the tankhouse capacity of 200,000 per tonnes per annum for two years
post-commissioning. Thereafter grade decline will get us again and we expect grades to average just about
0.7% during the remaining life of the reserve. The reserve, if you recall, is the supergene only that sits on
the top part of that resource.

This SRO project is expected to deliver exceptional returns again with very low capital expenditure
required; currently in pre-feasibility.

So, in addition to these low-cost, fast payback de-bottlenecking projects, we do have a couple of other
really interesting major projects. The first one is on Spence; let me talk to you about that.
We're studying the development of the 2.3 billion tonne hypogene resource at Spence. If we get this into
production, it will increase the mine life by more than 50 years.
It will access the hypogene ore that sits below the current supergene that we exploit. So like all -- like many
porphyries has a supergene that sits on an enriched portion and then a very large hypogene that sits
below. Tends to be harder; tends to be lower grade.
What we then -- because we access it below, we eliminate the need for pre-stripping and new mining
equipment. We'll have to build a 95,000 tonne per day concentrator and the related infrastructure. It will
rely, as always, in Chile on de-sal water, but leaching will continue in parallel using the existing
infrastructure.

When the supergene reserve is depleted, as expected in the mid-2020s, the SRO project will enable the
ongoing leaching of hypogene ore.

So hypogene has traditionally been very difficult to leach in a heap context, but again with this technology
that we've developed, we're really confident that in fact we will be able to leach this and we'll be able to
achieve recoveries of up to 60%, which is going to be really, really helpful and -- to ensure that we have
economies of scale on that side.

Page174of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.It's got good molyb and those by-product credits are expected to support at least a second quartile C1 cost
performance. And obviously, we have ongoing optimization to further drive down the cost.
The approach was substantially reduced at the capital intensity -- sorry. With attractive copper and molyb
growths, and an expected average copper recovery in the concentrator of close to 90% over the life of the
resource, we think the project is well positioned to compete for capital.

Currently in pre-feasibility, we -- I was asked the question -- we were asked the question just a moment
ago about why is it still in pre-feasibility; just a moment on that.

We have taken our time to study this thing, but we think it was really value-added, because we managed to
reduce the capital-intensity versus the original project that we had in mind. We think that that small delay is
really, really worth it to shareholders.

So in this regard we see further lowering -- potential lowering of the upfront capital required, via the
outsourcing of required infrastructure, such as the de-sal plant. The project has the potential to deliver first
production FY20.
Olympic Dam. The world's fifth-largest copper deposit. We're evaluating a low-risk, modular,
capital-efficient underground expansion. Expanded underground design, supported by our current
stope-mining method; no changes there. Significantly smaller footprint, obviously, than the previous
open-cut design.
What we intend is that it would increase all hoisted capability to 21 million tonnes per annum. Currently, as
I said, we're drilling about 10.5 million tonnes per annum; so roughly a doubling.

But on the surface a change. We'll go with a heap leach, operating in parallel with the current concentrated
cathode process; there's no reason to change what we've got at the moment. But this approach will
substantially reduce the combination of this approach, staying underground; and the heap leach will
substantially reduce the capital intensity of the mine expansion project and surface infrastructure.

Again, technology remains a key enabler of this lower capital-intensity growth path. And happy to say, lots
of testing, over many years, of that heap leach test program delivering very promising results.
Project has potential to enable OD to produce over 450,000 tonne per annum of copper; with associated
uranium, gold, silver by-products by the middle of next decade.
On a copper-equivalent basis that's 750,000 tonnes of copper per annum. That is -- if you put this mine
into Chile, where we had limited, that would certainly make it second or -- yes, probably the second-biggest
copper mine in the world.

Cost will be low, given the economies of scale and the low-cost nature of heap leaching. This will cement
our planned first-quartile C1 cost position.

But importantly, the project doesn't inhibit the ability, in the future, to go -- if it's so -- if the economics
change and so on, and circumstances change, we can still go with the open pit; it won't obviate the
optionality in that regard.

Project's expected to progress to pre-feasibility in calendar year 2015.

So beyond these attractive major growth projects, the unique quality of our resource provides deep
optionality across all of our assets.

Escondida, we have the ability to put another concentrator. There is high grade at depth. We can build an
underground mine, sweeten the ore as we, in the long term, start to get into a more of a chalcopyrite, and
you get into the reserve grade. That could support high-margin production for over a century. It's huge.

Cerro Colorado, haven't said much about Cerro, but we can leverage the successful leaching technology
deployed at Spence. We don't see any problem with that. In fact, there is more ore there.

It also has a hypogene. So we can, in fact, pursue multi-decade, low capital-intensity life-extension
projects; or even replicate an SGO-type concept.

Antamina, we are working with our partners. First thing we've got to do, extend the life of the reserve. It's
currently constrained by the tailings dam. That project's underway, we need to build another tailings dam,
and then we have got excess sag capacity.

I mentioned a moment ago that the crusher is the bottleneck. In fact, we've got good sag capability there.
We need to make sure that we just close that gap, and enable that mine to increase its throughput.

Page175of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.There's also high grade at the depth. And again, in the future Antamina, undoubtedly, I think it's going to
have an underground mine alongside that open pit.

Resolution, let's not forget Resolution, we do have a 45%. It is one of the largest and highest-grade
undeveloped copper assets in the world.

Clearly, the permitting is challenging, but it -- that is eventually going to come -- become one of the largest
copper producers in North America, and one -- in fact, one of the biggest copper producers in the world.

So notwithstanding our world-class resource base, we do continue to target Tier 1 discoveries in the
Americas, via a focused exploration program. But we only pursue opportunities that have the potential to
compete with our organic development options. As you've just seen, that really is a very high bar indeed.
So in summary, we're maximizing the potential of our world-class copper portfolio, to create sustainable
long-term value for our owners. We're focused on very few large, long-life, low-cost assets in stable
producing regions. We have a structured approach to productivity that allows us to proactively address the
ongoing challenge of grade decline.

We've got unique and sustainable solutions to the industry-wide constraints of power and water availability.
And, our resource position can support a suite of compelling longer-term growth options that will deliver a
substantial increase in production, while at the same time further lowering unit costs.
So all in all, we think we're very well positioned to benefit from the very attractive copper market
fundamentals.

And with that, I will hand back to Andrew, who will facilitate some further Q&A.

ANDREW MACKENZIE: Thanks, Peter. Just one point before I throw it open the Q&A. I was speaking to a
couple of people during the break and, to be unequivocal about things, the $4 billion of productivity
savings we're talking about are only from the core portfolio. That's going forward, if you like, from FY14.

So the additional productivity savings that we can get from the NewCo portfolio while it still sits in that are
not counted; and certainly we don't count anything that will be delivered. We think they will be substantial,
and you'll hear more from them through the separate listing, and them having their own bespoke strategy.

So that would come in addition, anything from FY14 onwards to what we've already spoken about.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this
web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other
forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon
current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those
stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more
specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and
believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the
assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results
contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF
THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE
AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR
INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO
WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE
COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE
BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND
THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER
DECISIONS.]

CO bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC | bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd
IN
NS ntra : Transcripts | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E

i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying

Executive News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter

Page176of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE usa : United States | austr : Australia | peru : Peru | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :

Australia/Oceania | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | lamz : Latin
America | namz : North America | nswals : New South Wales | samz : South America

PUB CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
AN Document FNDW000020141126eabn000gp

Page177of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.