Baosteel plays to the power

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Baosteel plays to the power

Tim Treadgold
763 words
18 June 2014
Business News
WABN
English
© Copyright 2014 Business News Pty Ltd.

Technically, Baosteel's $1.4 billion bid for control of Perth-based Aquila Resources is an iron ore
deal; but looked at slightly differently and it's also a gold deal, because the Chinese steel giant is
reminding the world of the golden rule of business that 'he who owns the gold makes the rules'.
There is no doubt that Baosteel, and its ultimate masters in the Chinese government, have the
financial firepower to buy whatever they like at whatever price they're prepared to pay.

But after acknowledging that China is sitting on the world's biggest pile of spare cash, there are
questions left unanswered; not that Aquila chairman Tony Poli is hanging around waiting for an
answer.
Mr Poli, who has a track record of knowing when it is best to sell, will trouser around $400 million for
his 29 per cent stake in Aquila.

Not a bad result for a few years' hard work.
Whether he could have got more and reclaimed his billionaire status is unlikely, because Baosteel's
bid of $3.40 for each Aquila share is generous given the weakened state of the iron ore market.

And that's when it becomes interesting to connect the dots in the Baosteel raid on Aquila and to
wonder whether there is a connection between the two matters - Aquila's share price and the price of
iron ore - and the degree to which the latter (at least) has been influenced by decisions in China.

And while it might offend Baosteel to suggest it has been anything other than the fortunate
beneficiary of such good fortune, the company has enjoyed a remarkable run of luck - with the sharp
fall in the iron ore price in recent months coinciding beautifully with the bid for Aquila.
Back on May 5, when Baosteel first made its offer for Aquila, the iron price had already started to
fall. From as high as $120 a tonne earlier in the year, the price had retreated close to $105/t.

That fall should have been more than enough to convince Aquila shareholders that $3.40 was a very
attractive price, given that their shares had been trading at $2.45 immediately before the bid and that
the iron ore price was falling - because Chinese steel mills had cut back on their orders.
The biggest of those Chinese steel mills buying less Australian iron ore is Baosteel; and that's
where the interesting question lies. Baosteel is buying less iron ore while also busy launching a
takeover bid for an emerging Australian iron ore producer.
Obviously Baosteel has an optimistic view on the future for iron ore or it would not be trying to buy
its own Australian iron ore mine.

Equally obviously, it views $3.40 as a fair price for Aquila, and can demonstrate that by pointing to
the current iron ore price of around $90/t.
And then there is a third factor - Chinese determination not to pay over the odds for another
Australian iron ore asset in the same way it overpaid spectacularly for the ill-conceived and poorly
designed Sino Iron project near Karratha.

Page84of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.For Baosteel, the timing is right for its Aquila bid - and Aquila shareholders understand that $3.40 is
the best they can hope for in a falling market for iron ore.
In theory, that makes everyone a winner; and while we will never know why the iron ore price started
falling just before the Baosteel bid in early May, and kept falling over the past six weeks, it will restore
some of China's lost credibility in the WA iron ore industry.
Sino Iron, which was supposed to cost $2.5 billion but has already cost $8 billion and is yet to hit
nameplate capacity, taught China a painful lesson about doing business in Australia and on the
importance of choosing the right local partner.

With Aquila, the deal seems likely to be wrapped up at the price first offered - which is unusual in a
takeover these days - and a rock-solid partner in Aurizon has been chosen to work alongside the
Baosteel team in developing Aquila's West Pilbara project.
Would that have been possible if the iron ore price had not fallen in such a timely manner?

That a question to which we will never know the answer. It's also one not many people will ask,
because everyone involved is getting ready to walk away with a smile from a deal that has produced
a surprising number of winners.

aqures : Aquila Resources Ltd. | baois : Shanghai Baosteel Group Corp
i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | i211 : Metal Ore Mining |
ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | igoldm : Gold Ore Mining | isteel :
Steel Production
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat
: Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry
News Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging
Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Business News Pty Ltd
Document WABN000020140618ea6i000ma

CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page85of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.