Phoenix share raid a strategic play, says Norton

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Phoenix share raid a strategic play, says Norton

Nick Evans
373 words
10 December 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
First
1
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

Norton Gold Fields has played down suggestions its $3.3 million raid on Phoenix Gold’s share
register could lead to a takeover, but the move comes as China’s gold majors return to equity
markets.

Norton is often touted as a likely bidder for near-neighbour Phoenix, but managing director Dianmin
Chen yesterday stressed the share buy, which took it to an 11.3 per cent stake in Phoenix, was not a
prelude to a full-blown takeover attempt.

The move comes amid signs that China Inc is again on the hunt for global gold assets.
On Monday, Norton’s Chinese parent company, Zijin Mining, inked a $C81 million ($85 million)
deal to buy 10 per cent of Canada’s PretiumMining, targeting its 6.9 million ounce Brucejack project
in British Columbia.
In November, Zijin was linked to talks with Barrick Gold over a role in the Pascua-Lama gold project,
and China’s Shandong Zhaojin Group have also talked up interest in Australian and North American
gold projects.
Norton has also sought to boost its Australian gold assets, losing out to local rivals in bids for Barrick
Gold’s WA mines.
It also inked a series of smaller deals, acquiring the Kalgoorlie Mining Company last year and
Bullabulling Gold in September.
It has signed partnership deals with Excelsior Gold and with Phoenix, taking up an option to mine its
Castle Hill project.
Phoenix managing director Jon Price said the company had seen renewed interest from potential
suitors in recent months, though it had not engaged in any formal takeover or investment discussions.
Mr Chen admitted Norton’s 11.3 per cent share buy could also be seen as a blocking stake, but
added that Norton saw no immediate threats on the horizon.

“It is a strategic holding for us, which is going to give us an opportunity to work with Phoenix closely to
develop the region more efficiently and more cost effectively,” he said.

Norton shares closed up 0.5¢ yesterday to 13¢, with Phoenix down 0.4¢ to 9¢.

‘We don’t have any intention of launching a takeover bid at this stage.’”Norton managing director

Dianmin Chen

CO

nogofe : Norton Gold Fields Ltd | pretsw : Pretium AG

Page176of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

i2112 : Silver Ore Mining | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150206 : Investment Trusts/Funds |
i815020602 : Real Estate Investment Trusts | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ifinal : Financial
Services | igoldm : Gold Ore Mining | iinv : Investing/Securities | ireest : Real Estate
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document TWAU000020141209eaca00030

Page177of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.