Arrium boss puts faith in grinding media's growth potential

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Arrium boss puts faith in grinding media's growth potential

Tim Binsted
435 words
25 November 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
23
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Arrium chief executive Andrew Roberts says a partial mothballing of his iron ore operations remains
a possibility as he urged investors to look past the under-fire mining business at the growth potential
in grinding media.
Amid concerns about its debt levels, the steel, iron ore and mining consumables group hosted an
investor day on Monday to talk up the quality and stability of its consumables division.

Despite a $754 million equity raising, Arrium's balance sheet remains stretched and its steel and
mining earnings are under pressure due to the collapse in iron ore prices and depressed steel
margins.

"We have to look to continue to pay down debt," Mr Roberts said.

"[But] this business [grinding media] is a very good business. We have strong market positions with
very good customer relationships. Investors need to look at the value of the three different [business]
segments."
Arrium's mining consumables business also supplies rail wheels and mining ropes, but the core of its
earnings comes from grinding media. Mining companies use grinding media to crush ore and extract
minerals. When grinding balls wear out they are replaced.

In the wake of the capital raising Arrium shares crashed to record lows. The stock rebounded 10 per
cent on Monday to 26.5¢ amid a market-wide recovery in iron ore stocks, possibly linked to Chinese
stimulus measures.
But based on Monday's close price, Arrium has a market value of $778 million, compared with the
near $1 billion paid for the Moly Corp grinding media business alone in 2010.
"The valuation of the company reflects the challenges in mining and steel," Mr Roberts said.
"We need mining consumables to continue to improve its earnings and cash, and we need steel to
improve its earnings and cash."
Arrium expects that the volume of copper and gold ore milled in the grinding business's core North
and South American markets to grow at 9 per cent a year to 2018-19.
The company also points to declining head grades in gold and copper as indicators of strong
demand for grinding media. Lower grade ores have lesser amounts of minerals and more unwanted
rock and thus require more grinding.

Arrium said it had scale and customer advantages because Moly Corp is four times larger than its
next biggest competitor and has strategic locations in key mining regions. Critically, Arrium points to
its stable margins as a sign of earnings reliability.

Page68of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Iron prices remain near five-year lows at around $US70 a tonne.

CO
IN
RE
PUB
AN

onestl : Arrium Limited
i22 : Primary Metals | i222 : Steel Products | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020141124eabp00046

Page69of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.