Baosteel’s bid for Aquila waved through by FIRB

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Baosteel’s bid for Aquila waved through by FIRB

Sarah-Jane Tasker, Foreign Investment
504 words
30 May 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
20
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Exclusive The target company is yet to make its recommendation
CHINESE giant Baosteel has been given the green light by Australia’s Foreign Investment Review
Board to progress its $1.4 billion bid for Aquila Resources.

Baosteel teamed up with Brisbane-based freight giant Aurizon earlier this month to launch a
$3.40-a-share offer for the iron ore and coal-focused company.

The target is yet to make a formal recommendation to its shareholders, other than for investors to take
no action while it reviews the bidder’s statement and prepares its response.

Baosteel and Aurizon said in a joint statement yesterday that they had each received letters from FIRB
advising that there was no objection to the acquisition of Aquila.

“We are extremely pleased that the FIRB conditions for this transaction have been fulfilled, which
further reduces the already limited conditionality associated with the offer,” Baosteel Resources
chairman Zhihao Dai said.

“Our compelling offer provides Aquila shareholders with an opportunity to realise certain value for their
Aquila shares at a significant premium to the Aquila share price prior to the announcement of the
offer.” When the bid was launched on May 5, the suitors outlined that Aquila shares had not closed
above the offer price since May 2012, adding the $3.40 offer was a “significant premium” to the market
value of Aquila’s underlying operating assets.

But the market has been tipping a lift in the offer price, with Aquila’s shares sitting comfortably above
the bid price since the offer was launched. The shares were trading at $3.52 yesterday.
The key assets China is chasing are the $7.4bn West Pilbara iron ore project in Western Australia
and the Eagle Downs coking coal project in Queensland.
Baosteel, which has a 20 per cent stake in Aquila, said at the time it launched the bid it had lost
patience with the progress being made on the miner’s key iron ore asset. Under the deal, Australia’s
largest rail freight operator, Aurizon, will emerge with a 15 per cent stake in Aquila and head up the
infrastructure arm to develop the rail and ports to support the iron ore project, if the bid succeeds.

Aurizon chief executive Lance Hockridge said yesterday the offer was the first step in a potential
pathway to co-investment in resources and greenfield infrastructure. He added that it represented a
great opportunity to co-develop world-class rail and port infrastructure, and in the process generate
jobs, boost exports and deliver to government significant royalty revenue.
There are no Chinese regulatory approvals or funding conditions associated with the offer, which is
subject to a 50 per cent minimum acceptance condition.Aquila managing director Tony Poli, who holds
a 28 per cent stake in the company, is yet to comment on the surprise move by his largest
shareholder, but if he were to accept, he would receive more than $400m.

Page57of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

aqures : Aquila Resources Ltd. | baois : Shanghai Baosteel Group Corp
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys |
ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | isteel : Steel Production
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140529ea5u0002y

Page58of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.