BHP, Rio have hits, misses on global divestment trail

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
BHP, Rio have hits, misses on global divestment trail

Peter Ker
728 words
7 April 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
26
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Resources

BHP Billiton has yielded almost twice as much money from divestments as Rio Tinto since the great
resources fire sale began 18 months ago, but analysts caution that such numbers do not
necessarily point to a better performance from the "global Australian".

The rival divestment campaigns have been thrust into the spotlight in recent days after reports
emerged that BHP was considering spinning out a collection of its non-core assets into a new listed
entity owned by BHP shareholders.

Such a move would go close to completing BHP's mission to simplify its portfolio in one fell swoop,
and leave Rio with some hard divestment work still to do.

But UBS analyst Glyn Lawcock said it was hard to pick a winner on the divestment trail, where BHP
has raked in $US6.5 billion ($7 billion) since July 2012, and Rio has made about $US3.5 billion
over a similar period.

"They've both had their successes and they've had their failures in terms of asset sales. Clearly
BHP has sold more in dollar terms, but as a percentage of asset base it's probably not too
dissimilar," he said.
BHP yielded $US1.5 billion from the sale of its stake in the Browse gas project and almost $US2
billion from selling the Richards Bay Mineral Sands business to Rio shortly before titanium dioxide
prices slumped.

Both companies had their diamond assets on the market early last year, and Mr Lawcock said BHP
did particularly well to sell its Canadian mine for $US500 million at a time when Rio had three on
the market which did not sell.
But he said Rio had trumped BHP in selling coal assets with the $1.01 billion sale of the Clermont
mine, while the $US820 million sale of copper and gold mine Northparkes was also lucrative.

Lonsec analyst Tim Gerrard agreed, saying that Rio had beaten price expectations for the
Northparkes and Clermont sales by about 25 and 30 per cent respectively.

"I would say both have done well, if anything Rio have sold those couple of assets after the market
downturn," he said.

"BHP sold a couple of items [such as Richards Bay] before the market collapsed, so some of that
has come a bit easier."

The analysts say the path forward appears easier for BHP, which has a bigger and better range of
assets to sell.

Page223of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."BHP's non-core assets are generally better quality that Rio's," Commonwealth Bank analyst
Andrew Hines said.
Rio's Canadian iron ore business is profitable but the miner doesn't have many other mid-sized,
profitable assets like the ones that BHP wants to discard because they are not quite first class.

BHP's manganese business, which is run from an island in the Gulf of Carpentaria, is a good
example of an asset that is among the best in class in a viable commodity, but cannot compete for
scale with BHP's iron ore and petroleum.

The biggest coup for both companies would be to dispose of their aluminium assets, which are
struggling in an industry where Chinese producers are supplying more aluminium than the global
market can absorb.

After several years of trying, it seems the miners are starting to consider more creative ways for
disposing of aluminium, hence last week's suggestion that it could be bundled up with a collection of
other, more profitable assets and gifted to BHP shareholders in the form of a new company.

Rio's aluminium division is bigger - and has inflicted more pain on its owner - than BHP's, and a
successful disposal by BHP could leave some Rio shareholders wondering why its management
had not beaten their rival to the punch.

But all three analysts doubted that a successful spin-out by BHP would reflect badly on Rio.

"I don't think it puts pressure on them," said Mr Lawcock, adding that Rio was probably not ready to
launch a spin-out of its own.

"The primary focus for Rio right now is just to improve the business and reduce the costs. Once
they get through 2014 and they've got the businesses in the shape they want them in, then you can
stand back and ask 'what do we do with these'."

bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | rtz : Rio Tinto PLC | rtzcra : Rio Tinto Group | craaus : Rio Tinto Ltd | bltplc
: BHP Billiton PLC
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020140406ea4700003

CO

IN
RE
PUB
AN

Page224of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.