Aurizon closer to Pilbara rail dream with Aquila bid

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Aurizon closer to Pilbara rail dream with Aquila bid

Sarah-Jane Tasker, infrastructure
474 words
6 May 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
22
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

The freight company will emerge with 15pc of the junior miner

AUSTRALIA’S largest freight rail operator, Aurizon, could finally get the foothold in Western Australia’s
rich iron ore region it has been chasing if the bid for Aquila Resources succeeds.

Aurizon is set to emerge with a 15 per cent stake in the target and spearhead the infrastructure arm to
be spun out of the company if the $1.4 billion bid takes off.
Aurizon has made no secret of its desire to break into the lucrative iron ore space in Western
Australia’s iron ore region that is dominated by the majors, BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto, and fears of
future demand cooling has not altered its strategy.

Aurizon chief executive Lance Hockridge said while it was now a different world it was not “zero
growth” in terms of demand.

“Partnering with Baosteel we have observed a customer and partner who has their own demand,” he
said.
“Baosteel is developing a new steel works in the south of China, the first stage will be the production
of around 10 million tonnes of additional steel. We are confident on the back of that — the
engagement of the end customer — this is a long-term and stable prospect for us.” He said the bid did
not mean the company was not still focused on opportunities in the Mid-West region or the east
Pilbara.
Aurizon, in conjunction with Brockman Mining and Atlas Iron, completed a study in 2012-13 for a new
independent iron ore railway in the Pilbara. But it has become increasingly likely that the miners are
focused on dealing with an existing infrastructure provider.
Mr Hockridge said infrastructure developed for the West Pilbara iron ore project — Aquila’s $7.4bn
development project — could support other deposits in the region. The proposed infrastructure
development includes a 432km heavy-haul rail line from the West Pilbara iron ore project to the
Anketell port.
The port could be developed to handle as much as 300 million tonnes — which would be close to
Rio’s planned future iron ore exports, or twice as much Fortescue Metals Group target.

“Baosteel is partnering with Aurizon for Aurizon’s expertise in Australian bulk haulage solutions to
deliver the rail and port component of the overall project,” Aurizon said.

If the bid does succeed, Aurizon will be given a 12-month exclusivity period to work with Baosteel on
the infrastructure for that project.“The parties contemplate that they will work towards an infrastructure
transaction that could see the restructure of the assets of the (joint venture) into an infrastructure
vehicle holding rail and port assets, to be majority owned by Aurizon, and a separate mining vehicle
holding mine assets and associated reserves,” Aurizon said.

Page175of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

aqures : Aquila Resources Ltd. | dorval : Aurizon Mines Ltd | hclamn : Hecla Mining Co
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i2112 : Gold Ore/Silver Ore Mining
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140505ea560005i

Page176of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.