Twin sets of frustration spark suitors’ hostile move

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Twin sets of frustration spark suitors’ hostile move

461 words
6 May 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
Second
1
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

To borrow from Charles Dickens, the hostile $1.4 billion takeover for Aquila Resources is a tale of two
sets of frustrations.
Baosteel, enamoured with the West Pilbara Iron Ore project since spending $286 million to buy into
Aquila at $6.50 a share five years ago, is frustrated with a lack of progress for what should be a
flagship Australian investment by China’s most prominent steelmaker.

Aquila closely watched Baosteel creep up the share register to 19.8 per cent late last year. While there
were no outward signs of unhappiness between shareholder and management, yesterday’s news and
some frank words from Baosteel executive Wu Yiming made clear the level of frustration, particularly
over offtake and funding to underpin West Pilbara’s development,

Baosteel is not the only unhappy partner in West Pilbara, with AMCI and POSCO also thought to be
frustrated with the development direction taken by Tony Poli’s Aquila.
Aurizon, meanwhile, is desperate to enter the Pilbara iron ore sector and replicate the success of its
Queensland coal-haulage business.
But it has been frustrated by the inability of proposed Pilbara iron ore customers to come up with
fundable development plans to deliver the tonnages required for Aurizon’s haulage ambitions.
Although Aurizon boss Lance Hockridge made clear a multi-user line through the central Pilbara and
terminating in Port Hedland remained a long-term option, it appears all but dead for now.

The upshot of all this frustration sparked several months of secret talks between Baosteel and Aurizon
before an announcement yesterday that caught the market by surprise. Hockridge says it should
deliver a “nation building” project and mark a defining moment in Australia-China relations.

The joint bid for Aquila, at $3.40 a share, also caught the target off guard on Saturday when it was sent
to Poli and his board. A board sub-committee is being set up but it remains unclear whether Poli,
whose 29 per cent stake is worth $362 million at yesterday’s $3.34 Aquila close, will be part of it. As a
driving force of Aquila since its listing in 2000, he has enjoyed the backing of retail shareholders, not
least because of a past policy to issue annual bonus shares to all investors.

Poli is not expected to endorse a $3.40 bid that would force him to exit what should be his legacy
mining project. The suitors will expect a legion of Poli supporters to heed the Aquila boss’ advice. But
how big is that legion, given West Pilbara’s slow progress, and what cash sweetener is required to get
minority investors over the line and Baosteel-Aurizon past the 50 per cent control threshold?

CO
IN

NS

aqures : Aquila Resources Ltd. | dorval : Aurizon Mines Ltd | hclamn : Hecla Mining Co
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2112 : Gold Ore/Silver Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources |
imet : Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News

Page144of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document TWAU000020140505ea5600006

Page145of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.