Grand vision for State’s meat supply

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

WestReg
Grand vision for State’s meat supply

357 words
7 August 2014
The Countryman
CTM
First
6
English
(c) 2014 West Australian Newspapers Limited.

Chen Xibin has come a long way for a man who started his career selling meat from the back of a
bicycle around the streets of Harbin in northern China.
He now runs Grand Farm, one of China’s biggest importers of red meat and a company with a vast
array of farms, feedlots and a nationwide distribution network supplying thousands of supermarkets,
restaurants and butcher shops.

Mr Chen said it was his bond with Busselton brothers Greg and Peter Walsh, who own and operate
meat processor V&V Walsh, that opened his eyes to WA and its farming potential.

It also helps to have the brothers watching his back while Grand Farm invests in dramatically boosting
lamb and beef supply out of WA.

Mr Chen has a history of investing in WA, joining forces with Peter Walsh in award-winning Amelia
Park Wines.
The new $10 million winery they are building on the former Moss Brotherssite on Caves Road is due
for completion by Christmas. Mr Walsh’s other interests include racehorses, and on Saturday night Mr
Chen and his entourage were guests of honour at the WA Racehorse Owners’ Association awards at
the Hyatt, where the ballroom was decorated with a replica terracotta warrior as part of a Chinese
Year of the Horse theme.

Mr Chen paid $10,500 for a piece of Black Caviar memorabilia at auction but his real interest is in
sheep and cattle.

Speaking through an interpreter, Mr Chen said he was passionate about agriculture and WA.

“I started coming here 10 years ago and I love this State,” he said.

“It is rich in agricultural resources, with a good environment and high standards of meat safety.

“The local farms are great, with quality livestock and potential to create more supply.”

Mr Chen said local investment was just part of Grand Farm’s plan for WA.
“It is not the investment, but what we buy from farmers that will help the most,” he said.

“It will give farmers confidence there is demand so they can increase supply.”

CO
IN

mosb : Moss Bros Group PLC
i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i645 : Clothing Stores | i654 : Specialty Stores | iretail : Retail

Page21of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

PUB
AN

china : China | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document CTM0000020140806ea8700018

Page22of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.