Regulating the outlaw: The Bitcoin bandit

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Regulating the outlaw: The Bitcoin bandit

James North
1,091 words
8 April 2014
Mondaq Business Briefing
BBPUB
English
(c) 2014 Mondaq Ltd

After only three years in existence the web-generated currency, Bitcoin, can pay for you to fly to space,
shop on eBay, buy a luxury electric car, pay for a house deposit or order pizza. But the mainstream
uptake of Bitcoin has left regulators wondering if governments should help or hinder this financial
phenomenon.

The US Congressional Law Library recently reviewed how more than 40 governments are dealing with
digital currencies like Bitcoin. Governments are scrambling to regulate, while still keeping in mind the
potential for digital currencies to restore faith in the global economy and allow savvy countries to help
businesses engage more securely and cost-effectively with global markets.

Bitcoins can no longer be dismissed as a faddish fast form of payment: more than 12.4 million Bitcoins
worth almost US$8 billion are in circulation and each day there are US$100 million Bitcoin online
transactions. But the market size and scandals -- like the use of Bitcoins by online drug traffickers and
the US$500 million theft that crashed the world's largest Bitcoin exchange -- have put regulators on alert.

WHAT IS BITCOIN?
Bitcoin, a web-generated currency, allows online transactions without credit cards, direct debits or other
traditional forms of payment.

See our cheat sheet of the Top Ten Bitcoin Basics.

Bitcoin is currently in the spotlight but there are more than 150 digital currencies in the market. Bitcoin is a
"cryptographic currency" or "cryptocurrency" because it uses computers to solve complex algorithms from
which limited numbers of coins can be 'mined'. Other cryptocurrencies include:

LTCBitcoin's largest competitor, Litecoin (). Limited to 84 million coin (four times Bitcoin's 21 million coin
limit). Value US$10 to US$20 per coin.

PPCPeercoin (). Infinite coin supply. Value US$2 to US$10 per coin.

NMCNamecoin (). Limited to 21 million coins. Value US$2 toUS$10.

DGCDogecoin (pronounced 'doggy coin') (). Most notable market entrant. Value US 0.0007 to 50 cents
per coin.

The subtle differences between each cryptocurrency— particularly in how each is 'mined'—will continue
to challenge regulators who are also grappling with the question of whether too much regulation too soon
could stymie future cryptocurrency related innovation.

ARE WE ON THE PATH TO INNOVATION??

Businesses like Overstock.com, Virgin Galactic, Wordpress, Reddit, PayPal, eBay, Tesla Motors and
Domino's Pizza (in the U.S. via a third party) are using Bitcoin's low transaction fees, daily cash outs,
lack of payment reversals and merchant tools to cut costs and engage consumers in new ways. Bitcoin is
also touted as a future 'micro-transaction' platform for online transactions that now incur bank fees
higher than the cost of goods or services offered.

Page141of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Bitcoin's online transactions do not require the provision of personal or financial information so they are
likely to improve consumer confidence undermined by the inadvertent online releases of personal
information by businesses including recent data security breaches by Telstra and, in the US, Target.

OR ARE WE ON THE PATH TO ANNIHILATION?

The biggest threat to Bitcoin is volatility. Most businesses find it difficult to adopt a currency whose value
can move several hundred dollars in a day because of the unregulated philosophy underlying the Bitcoin
protocol.

The Silk Road drug trafficking website boosted Bitcoin until the FBI shut it down and Bitcoin's value
plummeted from US$240 per coin to less than US$80 in a day. However, six months later Bitcoin was
worth $1200. A Silicon Valley venture capitalist recently predicted it could rise to US$100,000 per coin.

Bitcoin's value also dropped and then recovered after hackers stole $500 million that led to the crash of
the largest Bitcoin dealing site, Mt. Gox. Its closure fed concerns about the lack of security of Bitcoin
trading platforms dominated by small tech start-ups.

In such a rapidly changing environment, governments are updating their responses to cryptocurrencies
almost daily. The information below, drawn partly from the US Congressional Law Library's
cryptocurrency report and recent media coverage, is our snapshot of regulation at the time of writing.

Bitcoin is subject to the same taxation requirements ascommercial
transactions, including GST. The Australian Tax Officeadvises Bitcoin traders
to keep detailed records of theirtransactions as they are subject to tax. It
is not clear how theATO will link series of anonymous transactions to an
individual TaxFile Number without the individual self-reporting, so
futureenforcement is likely to be an issue.Brazil
Brazil is one of only two countries to enactcryptocurrency-specific laws.
Law No. 12,865 applies totransactions of 'electronic currencies' and gives
theBrazilian Central Bank regulatory power over electronic currencies.The
Bank has until 7 April 2014 to establish the regulations.Canada
The Bank of Canada says Bitcoin should have less intensiveoversight and
regulation than traditional payment systems. In 2013FINTRAC (Canada's
financial intelligence department) toldCanada's major Bitcoin exchange
operators that they were not'money services businesses' under the Proceeds of
Crime(Money Laundering) and Terrorist Financing Act. Therefore theydo not
subject to FINTRAC registration or rules.ChinaChinese banks and payment
institutions have been prohibitedfrom Bitcoin dealing since 3 December 2013.
- be that Bitcoinpricing, buying or selling, providing Bitcoin services to
customersor trading Bitcoin with other currencies.European Union
Bitcoin does not fall within either of the major EU paymentdirectives
(Electronic Money Directive 2009/110/EC and PaymentServices Directive
2007/64/E) but, the European Banking Authoritywarns that consumers using
cryptocurrencies still need to paytax.United Kingdom
Bitcoin trading is not subject to VAT but any Bitcointransactions for goods
and services will still be taxed at between10 and 20 percent, depending on
the goods or services.USA
Internal Revenue Service guidelines stipulate that Bitcoin willbe treated
(at least for tax purposes) as 'property' ratherthan 'currency -- like
stocks, bonds or real estate that aresubject to capital gains tax when sold
at a profit or loss.

The content of this article is intended to provide a general guide to the subject matter. Specialist advice
should be sought about your specific circumstances.

Most awarded

firm and Australian deal of
the year Employer of Choice for
Women
Australasian Legal Business Awards
Equal Opportunity for Women
in the Workplace (EOWA)

Mr James North

Page142of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Corrs Chambers Westgarth

Level 32, Governor Phillip Tower

1 Farrer Place

Sydney

2000

AUSTRALIA

Tel: 29210 6500

Fax: 29210 6611

E-mail: Savannah.Bassant@corrs.com.au

URL: www.corrs.com.au/thinking

Click Here for related articles

(c) Mondaq Ltd, 2014 - Tel. +44 (0)20 8544 8300 - http://www.mondaq.com

CO
IN

NS

ebayus : eBay Incorporated
i35104 : Electric/Gas/Biofuel Vehicles | ivicu : Virtual Currencies | i351 : Motor Vehicles | iaut : Automotive
| ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i656000301 : Etailing (B2C) |
ionlauc : Online Auctions | iretail : Retail
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | reqrbc : Suggested Reading
Banking/Credit | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | redit :
Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
IPD Media
PUB Mondaq Limited
AN

Document BBPUB00020140408ea48000e0

Page143of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.