Fairfax spends big on suburban affairs

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Fairfax spends big on suburban affairs

MARGIN CALL WITH BEN BUTLER
680 words
10 December 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
27
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

YOU can say what you like about Fairfax Media, but the company sure does like keeping media
mogulettes in the style to which they’d like to become accustomed.

If Fairfax succeeds in buying the half of alleged drink-driver Antony Catalano’s Metro Media Publishing
it doesn’t already own at the price speculated yesterday, it will have spent a whopping $177 million
buying suburban Melbourne newspaper groups in the past decade.

In a Christmas present to Catalano and his partners, the deal, first flagged by The Australian in
September and explored in detail by Fairfax’s own papers yesterday, will reportedly see Fairfax pay
$75m for full control of MMP.
This is on top of the $35m it paid in 2011 for its initial 50 per cent stake in a deal that saw it tip its
existing Fairfax Community Network papers into the JV.

And where did the FCN business come from? Much of it descends from Eric Beecher’s Text Media,
which Fairfax bought for $67m in 2003.

The deal was first let slip by an MMP exec boasting at a Porsche dealership, who can now go ahead
with his purchase. After all, $177m is a lot of Porsches — or Greg Hywood-style Maseratis.
A familiar line WORKERS at a Perth PR agency and a South African volunteer group are getting coal
for Christmas, courtesy of BHP Billiton’s new spin-off company.
The spin-off, South32, is named after the latitude of the company’s major operations in Australia and
South Africa. Unfortunately, not an original idea: there’s already Perth comms agency 32 Degrees
South and Volunteer Africa 32° South, based in Chintsa, on the South African coast.

“I guess we don’t really factor into BHP Billiton’s thinking on this,” 32 Degrees South CEO Paula
Taylor told Margin Call.

She’s still a BHP fan, saying the miner had “done a lot for Perth and Australia”.

On the other side of the world, Volunteer Africa 32 South’s website boasts it has been operating since
2004.

Meanwhile, other businesses named after latitudes best brace for mistaken identity-related hilarity.
Among them are clothing label 38° South and a bar on Hobart’s Elizabeth Street pier, 42 Degrees
South.

Toasting success A TIE-LESS UBS Australasia boss Matthew Grounds and his investment banking
chief Anthony Sweetman were holding court in one of the main tables at Sydney’s Rockpool
restaurant yesterday with Challenger CEO Brian Benari and his crew.

Page232of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Benari would surely have been toasting the good leg-up for his annuities business given by the Murray
review, while Grounds and Benari might have been talking up the skills of former Challenger boss
Dominic Stevens in pulling together News Corporation, James Packer and Kerry Stokes to invest in
payments provider Society One. Grounds himself secured a warm welcome backslap and handshake
from Rockpool ponytail Neil Perry.

Also spotted was Yellow Brick Road boss and founder Mark Bouris, who was deep in conversation
with Catalano. Who drove?

Combined spin IAN Smith’s Bespoke Approach and Andrew Butcher’s Butcher & Co are combining to
form a corporate comms company boasting enough spin to power a small city.

On New Year’s Day, Butcher is shutting down his operation in favour of a quarter share in Bespoke
alongside Smith, Nick Bolkus and Alexander Downer.

“Enough of this Butcher & Co stuff — I want to take my name off the wall and go back to anonymity,”
he said. “We’ve already got quite a few clients that we work on together.” But what of the other spin
shop with whom Bespoke and Butcher had a loose alliance, Sue Cato’s Cato Counsel?
“Cato works too hard for us to merge with her,” Butcher said.

No sound from AMP DOESN’T the boss of “fifth pillar” AMP, Craig Meller, care about the Murray
inquiry? Everyone else has put their case but the biggest non-bank group has been slow to
react.butlerb@theaustralian.com.au

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

ffaxj : Fairfax Media Ltd
i475 : Printing/Publishing | i4751 : Newspaper Publishing | imed : Media/Entertainment | ipubl :
Publishing
cspin : Spin-offs | c02 : Corporate Changes | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | cncc : New Companies Creation | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141209eaca0001b

Page233of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.