China 's Bright Food Plans Weetabix Food IPO -- 2nd Update

HD
BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

China's Bright Food Plans Weetabix Food IPO -- 2nd Update

By Laurie Burkitt
575 words
6 November 2014
20:30
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

SHANGHAI--China's Bright Food Group Co. is hungry for international deals.

Bright Food, which bought Weetabix Food Co. two years ago, is planning to list the U.K.
breakfast-cereal maker in Hong Kong or London, said Ge Junjie, Bright's vice president, in a news
briefing Thursday. The company is also planning a listing of Manassen Foods Australia Pty. Ltd., but
has no time frame Mr. Ge said.

The Shanghai-based company, which is known for its White Rabbit candy, is also "in discussion" with
Irish dairy-products groupGlanbia PLC, Mr. Ge said. He declined to offer more details.
He said Bright is looking for dairy, sugar and wine deals across the globe, in places including
Australia, North America and New Zealand.
Bright Food is an example of a Chinese company that is looking overseas to secure resources for the
Chinese market. It has opened its wallet in the past few years for a string of outbound acquisitions.
In addition to Weetabix, Bright acquired in October a majority stake in Italian olive oil maker Salov
Group for an undisclosed amount.
Also in October, it extended a deadline to acquire a 56% stake in Israeli dairy companyTnuva Food
Industries Ltd. to Jan. 5, its second three-month extension of a billion-dollar transaction that was
expected to close two months ago. Bright Food hasn't disclosed how much it is paying for the
Tnuvastake, but people familiar with the matter said earlier the transaction valued Tnuva at around
$2.4 billion.
In 2011, Bright acquired a 75% stake in Australia-focused Manassen Foods Australia Pty. Ltd. from
Champ Private Equity. Bright has said it is planning to launch a financial arm for its overseas mergers
and acquisitions and to bring together capital for the entire company.

Mr. Ge said that Bright plans to raise 20% to 30% of market valuation for Weetabix and Manassen. He
declined to offer valuation and financial details.
With the expansion of China's economy, Bright--which also sells products such as pork and ice
cream--expects a higher demand for food in the country, the company said. Bright, which is known for
its dairy and its White Rabbit candy, also plans to expand its retail division, including Hao De
convenience stores and Nong Gong Shang supermarkets.
Mr. Ge on Thursday didn't respond to questions on whether the situation of the company's former
chairman, Wang Zongnan, has affected its international ambitions. Shanghai government's
prosecutor's office said in August it approved the arrest of Mr. Wang, a retired Communist Party official,
on suspicion of bribery and embezzlement.

The party said late last year that Mr. Wang had retired from Bright Food. Mr. Wang had won credit for
leading the state-owned company's acquisition of foreign brands, most notably the 2012 acquisition
of Weetabix. A Bright spokesman said in August that Mr. Wang's arrest wouldn't affect Bright Food or
its overseas strategy. It isn't possible to reach Mr. Wang for comment.

Page110of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Typically, the fall of a party leader of a Chinese state-owned enterprise has little impact on the
underlying businesses because the jobs are political appointments, analysts say.

Fanfan Wang contributed to this article.

Write to Laurie Burkitt at laurie.burkitt@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

November 06, 2014 04:30 ET (09:30 GMT)

CO

IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

brgfdc : Bright Food (Group) Co Ltd | mnssfd : Manassen Foods | wbks : Weetabix Ltd | amezza :
Castle Harlan Australian Mezzanine Partners Pty Ltd
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | ifood : Food Products | icnp : Consumer Goods | i4223 : Breakfast
Cereals
c1711 : Initial Public Offerings | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | ccat : Corporate/Industrial
News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | c02 : Corporate Changes | c14 : Stock Listings | c17 :
Funding/Capital | c171 : Share Capital | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | eurz : Europe | ire : Ireland | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz
: Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz : European Union Countries |
weurz : Western Europe
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document DJDN000020141106eab6001fx

Page111of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.