Food company to build hostel

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Food company to build hostel

MARTIN RASINI
265 words
11 July 2014
Gold Coast Bulletin
GCBULL
GoldCoast
64
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

A YATALA-based company that exports food products to Asia has earmarked a property close to
Griffith University’s Gold Coast campus for hostel-style accommodation.
The facility is planned for a 909sq m site at 6 Tonga Place, Parkwood, by Pacific Food Industries, a
company based at Computer Rd, Yatala, which produces sauces and condiments and undertakes
contract manufacturing.

The company, in which Singapore interests hold a stake, tapped into China’s massive food market
in 2007 and sent its first shipment of cooking pastes and condiments in October that year. It also
exports to Korea, Japan, Hong Kong, Indonesia and Singapore.
The company’s products include curry paste, chicken rice paste and stir-fry paste.
The Tonga Place site carries a fringe business zoning. It is close to the new Gold Coast University
Hospital as well as Griffith University.

Pacific Foods acquired the Parkwood property for $329,000 in 2011 and has applied to the city
council to develop on the site a five-storey building with 60 apartments.

The hostel building will feature a range of facilities and a two-level basement carpark.

The ground level will host caretaker’s accommodation, office and reception facilities, luggage storage,
and a cafe with functions room.

There will also be two meeting rooms.

The four upper storeys will boast 60 apartments with each storey accommodating 13 single-bedroom
units and two studio units.The application says that facilities also will include communal space, living
areas, kitchen and laundry, mailboxes for each unit and parking for 38 vehicles.

NS
RE
PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document GCBULL0020140711ea7b00023

Page216of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.