Good design stands out, and blends in

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Domain
Good design stands out, and blends in

SUE WILLIAMS
997 words
16 August 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
18
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

NEW HOMES

Though they have this same objective in mind, architects often come up with quite different results.

A good new apartment building has two aims: to stand out from the rest - and also to blend in with the
locale. But, in reality, isn't that an impossible, and quite contradictory, combination?

Not at all, protests architect Dugald Mackenzie. "You really want something that reflects the locality,
the economic situation and the demographic. But at the same time, you want something of real quality
design. To achieve both of those is the very best outcome."

With every new build, architects push to manage the double, and end up with distinctly different
results, according to the neighbourhood. While Mackenzie has designed a sleek, smart 87-apartment
building in Campsie called Shine Apartments to match the aspirational demographic, others also
creating buildings of the same height - six levels - have quite contrasting briefs.

In beachside Terrigal on the NSW Central Coast, for instance, EJE Architects and SJB have come up
with a bright, colourful seaside look and feel for their laid-back 50-apartment Pine Tree Lane block.
Meanwhile, in leafy Lane Cove on the North Shore, architects Nettleton Tribe Partnership have
designed a smaller, sharper 48-unit building called Atrium, set in stunning landscaped gardens, since
their buyers are likely to want to be surrounded by greenery.

"It's important to design something the fits in well to the area," says Mackenzie, the principal of
Mackenzie Architects of his Shine. "This building is linear, rhythmic and simple, and it's for an
aspirational demographic; Campsie is now much more inner west than middle west, and is becoming
more and more like Marrickville and Dulwich Hill so you can afford to put more money into the
construction and finishes."
Being developed by JIA Shun Development Group, one of the larger builder-developers in China, and
to be built by Kang Group, it's directly opposite Canterbury Hospital and within walking distance of the
station and town centre.

"We will be the first new building along Canterbury Road in Campsie and we wanted to be sure the
design was beautiful," says director Con Kang. "We want everyone who sees it to love it and we are
very happy with it."
Ian Bennett, director of agents Colliers, says there'll be retail and commercial spaces along the
ground floor of the building, on the site of a former petrol station. "They're oversized apartments and
there are phenomenal views even from level one," he says.

Pine Tree Lane at Terrigal has just launched its second stage of apartments, with homes to be built
around a central atrium to make the most of the sunshine, the beach - just 150 metres away - and

Page279of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.cross-ventilating sea breezes. "It's casual and light and air-filled with great terraces three metres
deep," says Andrew Cochrane of developer PTL Land.

"The materials and finishes all have a good beachy look, with light colours that reflect the location.
You'd never want the black and grey of buildings in the inner city."
That's the same for Atrium in Lane Cove, being sold by Ray White Projects. There, people don't want
to live in sterile-looking blocks; they want to know they're still among the trees and gardens of the
North Shore, says Chris Kloster of developer IPM.

"We've put a lot of thought into that, and took care with the landscaping," he says.

"We're very different to all the three-storey walk-ups in the area, and also to the buildings in the inner
city. We wanted a luxury, aspirational building not so different to Marque we built for the Mosman
market.
"If you're in a leafy area, and near the Lane Cove National Park, you want to reflect those ..."

Shine Apartments, 502-518 Canterbury Rd, Campsie, will have 24 one-beds (55-66 square metres)
from $520,000 and 63 two-beds (70-91 square metres) from $615,000. Completion mid to late 2016.

See shineapartments.com.au, phone 1800 612 084.

'It fits in well with the area'

CASE STUDY

As a builder himself, Adam Lorimer appreciates good design when he sees it. So when he looked at
the images for Pine Tree Lane, he was immediately won over. "I like the look of the building and it'll be
a pretty good streetscape for sure," says Lorimer, aged 52. "It fits in well with the area, it's in a good
price range and I like Terrigal for the restaurants and shops and nice beach."
Lorimer and his wife Linda, 51, with three children aged from 23 to 17, bought a one-bed apartment
off the plan, and plan to rent it out short-term but eventually to use it as a weekender.

OR TRY THESE ...

Pine Tree Lane, 6 Pinetree Lane, Terrigal

Buyers so far have been owner-occupiers, owners wanting weekenders and investors knowing peak
season Christmas and Easter holiday rentals will pay for the whole year. All the apartments have
parking and there are commercial and retails spaces below. Seventeen apartments remain for sale,
including one-beds (52-58 square metres) from $399,000; two-beds (78-97 square metres) from
$650,000; and three beds (131 square metres) from $980,000. pinetreeterrigal.com.au, phone 1300
889 571.

Atrium, 3-7 Birdwood Avenue, Lane Cove

The developers say the "village" lifestyle of the building, where residents will be able to walk to the
plaza, shops, cafes and boutiques, will be a big drawcard. In addition, it's just one bus stop and one
set of traffic lights from the Sydney CBD as well as being close to the M2 and M7. Five one-bedroom
apartments (50-57 square metres) remain of the one-, two- and three-bed mix, and start at $590,000.
atriumlanecove.com.au, phone 1300 369 750.

IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

i8371 : Architects/Surveyors | irreal : Residential Real Estate | i837 : Technical Services | i85 : Real
Estate Transactions | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ireest :
Real Estate
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | garchi : Architecture | gart : Art | gcat : Political/General News | gent
: Arts/Entertainment
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020140815ea8g00082

Page280of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.