Westpac upholds title as one of Australia’s most innovative companies

HD Westpac upholds title as one of Australia’s most innovative companies
WC 692 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

16 October 2014
ENP Newswire
ENPNEW
English
(c) 2014, Electronic News Publishing. All Rights Reserved.

Release date - 15102014

Westpac Institutional Bank (Westpac or WIB) has ranked 16th in The BRW 50 Most Innovative
Companies 2014, reflecting Westpac’s continued focus on improving the customer experience through
technology and innovation.

TD

This year, Westpac’s winning innovations were two electronic payment systems, QuickWeb for schools
and the Closed-Loop Payment System.

QuickWeb

Westpac’s QuickWeb is an online payment collection capability for schools. It is a seamless, easy to
administer platform which enables schools to accept payments through an online portal integrated into
existing systems. Payments can be made securely online for everything from excursions and music
lessons to tuition fees, donations and enrolments.

QuickWeb empowers schools to manage their payments in real time, reduces administration costs and
provides an online audit trail of payments and refunds, simplifying the process for schools and parents
alike.
According to Mike Baldwin, Head of Innovation and Implementation, Global Transactional Services WIB,
QuickWeb for schools solves the problems, on both sides of the transaction. Parents want to make
payments to schools without having to send cash, and schools want to reduce the manual handling and
automate payment collection.

‘Children taking cash to school can be problematic in that the money doesn’t always arrive safely and
from the school’s perspective, handling cash is time-consuming and labour intensive. QuickWeb solves
the problem for both parties,’ Mr Baldwin explained.

Closed-Loop Payment System

Westpac’s Closed-Loop Payment System (CLPS) enables businesses to receive payments without the
need for cash or credit cards. It also enables distribution of funds to beneficiaries, eliminating the need for
vouchers and manual processes. Customers and/or employees pay with their company ID badge or
mobile phone, which is read at the existing point of sale system.

The CLPS is of particular interest to corporate and institutional customers in industry sectors such as
government care, mining, universities and services management within commercial property, where the
ability to make purchases without cash or credit cards has obvious appeal.

In the case of remote mine sites, for example, banks are often hundreds of kilometres away, so the CLPS
can make life much easier for workers living and transacting in remote areas.

According to Mr Baldwin, the same applies to universities and health-clubs, where students and members
can use their ID to make purchases.

‘The CLPS simplifies the payment process, and has the added benefit of keeping more of a customer’s
total spend on-campus, or in the health club. And because it also tracks customer information, it can be
used as an effective loyalty management platform,’ Mr Baldwin said.

Page63of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Rachel Slade General Manager, Global Transactional Services, WIB said Westpac’s ranking this year in
The BRW 50 Most Innovative Companies 2014 is particularly rewarding as the business firmly believes
that all customer challenges can be overcome by innovation and seeks to provide such solutions in all its
products.

‘Innovation is everyone’s job at Westpac, because it is only by investing in innovation that we can harness
technology to deliver faster and more flexible banking solutions for our customers,’ Ms Slade said.

About Westpac

Westpac Banking Corporation (Westpac) was founded in 1817 and was the first bank established in
Australia. Today, the WestpacGroup has branches and controlled entities throughout Australia, New
Zealand and the near Pacific region and maintains offices in key financial centres around the world
including London, New York, Hong Kong, mainland China, Singapore and India. WestpacGroup
employs approximately 36,000 people and has three key customer facing divisions through which we
serve around 12 million customers.

About Westpac Institutional Bank
Westpac Institutional Bank (WIB) delivers a broad range of financial services to commercial, corporate,
institutional and government customers with connections to Australia and New Zealand.

WIB operates through dedicated industry relationship and specialist product teams with expert knowledge
in transactional banking, financial and debt capital markets, specialised capital, and alternative
investment solutions.

Westpac Institutional Bank, a division of Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 AFSL
233714

[Editorial queries for this story should be sent to newswire@enpublishing.co.uk]

wstpac : Westpac Banking Corporation Limited
i81402 : Commercial Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
npress : Press Releases | ncat : Content Types
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

CO
IN
NS
RE
PUB Electronic News Publishing Ltd.
AN

Document ENPNEW0020141016eaag0000y

Page64of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.