South Africa: The growing importance of public interest factors in merger control Foreign companies planning acquisitions in Africa need to...

HD

17 August 2014

South Africa: The growing importance of public interest factors in merger control Foreign
companies planning acquisitions in Africa need to consider the impact on the public interest
Heather Irvine

BY
WC 1,224 words
PD
SN Mondaq Business Briefing
SC
LA
CY
LP

BBPUB
English
(c) 2014 Mondaq Ltd

You might also be interested in...

From the Editor

TD

European Union: Damages Directive approved by EU Parliament

New rules to harmonise procedure for antitrust damages actions

European Union: New EU competition rules on technology transfer agreements

The new rules could require the amendment of certain clauses in technology transfer agreements

France: The new "Hamon Law" introducing French class actions

New consumer law introduces significant provisions with respect to competition and distribution law

Italy: New developments in the "Pfizer saga"

A recent judgment provides further guidance on the interaction between antitrust law and patent law in the
pharmaceutical sector
UK: The Competition and Markets Authority launches operations

The new UK competition authority will have additional powers and handle cases differently than before

Canada: Consent agreement reached with e-book publishers

Canada has reached a settlement with e-book publishers following settlements in the EU and the US

Canada: Abuse of dominance do-over: Appeals court orders new hearing in real estate case

Court rules on whether a trade association, which is not a competitor in the market, can engage in abuse
of dominance

Japan and South Korea: Crackdown on bid-rigging in East Asia

Asian competition authorities show they are increasingly serious about bid-rigging activities
China: Life Technologies/ Thermo Fischer
China's antitrust regulator is a key gatekeeper in international merger control filings
China: MOFCOM adopts Simple Cases Regulation

Adoption of simplified merger review rules follows recent European Commission reforms
Australia: The country may lead the world on competition reform

Page239of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.In Australia, a comprehensive reform of competition policy is taking place

South Africa: Dawn raids rise again

The South African Competition Commission is currently intensifying its efforts in relation to cartel
infringements

A recent South African merger decision highlights the need for foreign companies planning to make
strategic acquisitions in Africa to consider not only whether their transaction will affect competition, but
also whether it will affect the public interest, for example, by leading to job losses or to a strategic African
resource falling under foreign control.

An increasing number of African competition laws require competition authorities to take into account not
only traditional competition effects (like whether a merger will increase concentration), but also much
wider public interest factors. For example, South Africa's Competition Act requires the competition
authorities to investigate whether a merger may negatively affect employment, a particular industrial
sector or region; the ability of small businesses or firms controlled by historically disadvantaged persons
to become competitive; and the ability of national industries to compete in international markets. Similar
provisions are contained in the competition legislation in force in Botswana, Namibia, Kenya, Malawi,
Swaziland, Zambia, Tanzania and Zimbabwe, as well as the COMESA states.

The South African experience over the last three years illustrates the increasing importance of public
interest factors in merger reviews. The South African competition authorities initially tended to focus on
investigating job losses as a result of mergers. In the 2012 Wal-Mart decision, however, the South African
Competition Appeal Court emphasised that public interest factors are just as important as the competition
evaluation in our legislation. However, the Court accepted that its jurisdiction in merger control is not to
make the world a better place, but to prevent it becoming worse as a result of a specific merger; not every
impact on the interests of the public resulting from an acquisition is relevant. This has resulted in the
South African competition authorities elevating the public interest analysis, and consequently adopting a
more robust investigation of public interest effects.
The AgriGroupe transaction is a good example. It involved the acquisition of a South African listed
agricultural company by a foreign investor, AgriGroupe. Like the Wal-Mart / Massmart merger, it raised
no competition law concerns, because the acquirer was a foreign entrant into South Africa. However, in
the course of the Competition Commission's investigation and the Competition Tribunal hearing, the
authorities intensively investigated the impact of the transaction on employment, food security and on
small agricultural businesses controlled by historically disadvantaged South Africans. The African Farmers
Association of South Africa raised concerns about the future of loans made available by AFGRI to black
farmers on behalf of the Land Bank. They also raised the concern that small black farmers might be
denied access to essential agricultural infrastructure like grain silos. The South African Communist Party
was also concerned that the consideration for the shares in AFGRI was too low, that strategic grain
storage facilities would be controlled by foreign investors and that the merged firm might export South
African grain.

During the Commission's investigation, the merging parties contended that none of these concerns were
merger specific, and none fell within the scope of the issues the Commission has jurisdiction to investigate
in terms of the Act. n its recommendation, the Commission concluded that the proposed transaction would
be unlikely to have a negative impact on public interest under the standards required by the Competition
Act. However, in order to expedite clearance, AFGRI entered into an agreement with various government
ministries, led by the Economic Development Department, under which it agreed to continue to be
involved in a number of pre-existing corporate social investment projects. In particular, AFGRI agreed to
establish a R90 million fund to be used for the development of emerging subsistence and small-scale
farmers; including the provision of loans, the development of training programs and assistance to poultry
farmers, as well as a moratorium on any retrenchments occurring as a result of the transaction. AFGRI
stressed that this agreement was not intended to address any public interest effects. At the hearing, the
Competition Tribunal questioned the Commission about the impact of the merger on employment, food
security and black economic empowerment, but approved the acquisition subject to the terms of
AFGRI's agreement with the ministries.

This South African case illustrates that foreign firms making acquisitions in Africa should give proper
consideration to any public interest concerns that the merger may potentially raise, particularly if their
transaction may affect employees, or a sector of an African economy which the government regards as
strategically important. It is essential to decide at an early stage whether to engage with the government
and interested trade unions in order to avoid a protracted investigation. The alternative is to challenge
whether the issues being raised fall within the scope of the public interest provisions in the relevant
competition legislation and to argue that no conditions should be imposed. However, as the Wal-Mart

Page240of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.case in South Africa and Namibia demonstrates, choosing this path comes with the risk of protracted and
costly litigation.

Adequate time for these discussions needs to be built into the transaction timetable. Parties who need a
swift clearance may be forced to tender conditions which adequately address concerns raised by
government or trade unions, even if these are not merger specific.

Ms Heather Irvine

Norton Rose Fulbright Australia

Level 18

Grosvenor Place

225 George St

Sydney

2000

AUSTRALIA

Tel: 29330 8000

Fax: 293308000

E-mail: clair.simpson@nortonrosefulbright.com

URL: www.nortonrosefulbright.com/

Click Here for related articles

(c) Mondaq Ltd, 2014 - Tel. +44 (0)20 8544 8300 - http://www.mondaq.com

CO offair : Competition and Markets Authority | nortrb : Norton Rose Fulbright LLP
IN
NS

i835 : Legal Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers |
c34 : Anti-Competition Issues | cacqu : Acquisitions | cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types |
nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
safr : South Africa | africaz : Africa | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | souafrz : Southern Africa

RE

IPD nti-trust/Competition Law
PUB Mondaq Limited
AN

Document BBPUB00020140817ea8h0008e

Page241of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.