The McAleese Compulsion

The McAleese Compulsion

HD
WC 1,056 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

13 January 2014
FN Arena
FNAREN
English
Copyright 2014. FN Arena Ltd.

- Broker initiations - Transport and logistics solutions in the right sectors - Compelling valuation

By Greg Peel

TD

McAleese Ltd ((MCS)) provides specialised transport and logistics solutions to the infrastructure and
resource sectors.

An investor looking to find upside opportunity at the smaller end of the market capitalisation scale, given a
call from many an analyst that large caps are looking well-priced, would be forgiven for feeling any
exposure to Australian infrastructure and resources is a one-way ticket on the train heading out of town.
The Australian economy is transitioning, we were told at length in 2013, away from "mining" and back
towards those non-mining sectors which have either been quiet since the GFC or heavily impacted in
recent years by the strong currency. It is easy to fall into the trap, nevertheless, of misconstruing what
throwaway lines like "the end of the mining boom" actually mean.
Notwithstanding an LNG export industry still very much in the ramp-up phase, Australia's China-driven
mining "boom" has not actually "ended". It has simply shifted from its ramp-up phase into its production
phase. During ramp-up, mining companies spent billions increasing their production and processing
capacity in order to exploit demand from China and other emerging economies anticipated to remain in at
least a gradual uptrend over subsequent decades. With a few exceptions, such as the two big iron ore
miners' ongoing Pilbara expansion plans, Australia is now "ramped up". This means less engineering and
construction requirement in the sector ? a fact already evident given the recent routing among listed
engineering and construction contractors. The projects are complete. Let the production begin.
So once produced, how do Australia's mining products then make their way into the hands of buyers?
They are transported in most cases by sea from Australia's ports. Getting to those ports requires a good
deal of transport and logistical solutions.

McAleese' key activities include specialised transport and lifting, bulk haulage and metropolitan liquid
fuels distribution. The McAleese strategy is to make accretive acquisitions and build a diversified
Australian transport and logistics company. As an example of its activities, a month ago McAleese won
an additional contract with iron ore miner Atlas Iron ((AGO)). Brokers agree that Atlas' ambitious
production growth plans provide the potential for the company to become a significant player in the
sector, assuming stable iron ore prices, but that the company's biggest issue is a lack of transport
infrastructure. The new contract signs up McAleese to 3mtpa of iron ore loading and haulage over four
years, which Deutsche bank notes is worth some $60-70m for MCS.

"In our view," say the Macquarie analysts, "one of McAleese' key strategies is to grow with existing
customers such as Atlas Iron. From a standing start in FY09, Atlas is targeting a 15mtpa run-rate by
FY15. McAleese has an umbrella contract with Atlas".
"Despite concerns around the outlook for mining and infrastructure capital expenditure in Australia," the
Macquarie analysts go on to suggest, "we are reasonably confident in the longer term revenue outlook for
the specialised transport and heavy business given its specialist skills and integrated service offering".
The company's existing contracted revenue base sourced from its oil & gas business provides a "stable
backbone" given the mature nature of the industry. And the group's strategy is to continue to build a
leading diversified transport and logistics company by expanding into new segments, geographies and
product capabilities.

Page57of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Macquarie initiated coverage on McAleese just before Christmas, with an Outperform rating. Credit
Suisse initiated coverage this morning, also with an Outperform rating. Deutsche Bank retains a Buy
rating, bringing to three the number of FNArena database brokers now covering the stock.

Credit Suisse is not oblivious to the risks perceived for a contractor in today's Australian resource sector.
To account for such risks, the analysts have built expectations of a decline in the mining/energy capex
outlook into their valuation model, amounting to a 41% reduction in sector earnings before interest and tax
for MCS over FY13-16. They have also conservatively factored in the assumption of a potential loss of
existing fuel distribution contracts with BP and Shell, to the tune of 50%.

Credit Suisse still finds MCS offers a "compelling" valuation.

According to the analysts' numbers, MCS is trading on an FY14 price/earnings multiple of 10x which
represents a 30% discount to transport peers and a 36% discount to the Small Industrials. MCS
generates a greater return of equity than its peer group (14.1% to 11.2% average) and exhibits lower
gearing. Credit Suisse forecasts a 10% compound annual growth rate in earnings per share over the next
two years and believes the stock's price/earnings multiple will re-rate over the next 12 months as
management executes on its acquisition/contract win strategy and de-risking is achieved through
existing contract renewals.

Macquarie has lined up the usual suspects among the listed transport & logistics sectors to offer a
benchmark comparison for MCS ? Toll Holdings, Asciano, K&S Corp and Boom Logistics. The analysts
have further widened their benchmarking by looking at mid-cap mining service companies as a
comparison. Based on earnings multiples among comparables, Macquarie has arrived at a valuation for
MCS which forecasts a 15.9% return on equity and a target price of $1.88 (last trade $1.54).

Credit Suisse has set its target at $1.80 and Deutsche Bank $1.75 to provide an FNArena consensus
target of $1.81. Consensus shows a dividend forecast of 4.2cps in FY14, rising to 7.0cps in FY15 and
beyond.  

Find out why FNArena subscribers like the service so much: "Your Feedback (Thank You)" - Warning this
story contains unashamedly positive feedback on the service provided.

FN Arena is building the future of financial news reporting at www.fnarena.com . Our daily news reports
can be trialed at no cost and with no obligations. Simply sign up and get a feel for what we are trying to
achieve.

Subscribers and trialists should read our terms and conditions, available on the website.

All material published by FN Arena is the copyright of the publisher, unless otherwise stated.
Reproduction in whole or in part is not permitted without written permission of the publisher.

5E69C42F-AD41-B573-9E5D42EA0AA47A58

itsp : Transportation/Shipping
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RF
CO mcalgp : McAleese Ltd.
IN
RE
PUB FN Arena Ltd.
AN

Document FNAREN0020140113ea1d0005l

Page58of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.