COMPANIES; New club to pitch S'pore as hub for mining businesses

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Money
COMPANIES; New club to pitch S'pore as hub for mining businesses

Grace Leong
562 words
20 March 2014
Straits Times
STIMES
English
(c) 2014 Singapore Press Holdings Limited

A NEW club was launched yesterday to promote Singapore as a regional hub for managing and
financing mining enterprises.
The founders of the Singapore Mining Club told The Straits Times they are aware of several
planned listings on the Singapore Exchange (SGX) by mining companies from the region over the
next 12 to 18 months.

The club hopes to capitalise on SGX's efforts to court listings in the mineral, oil and gas sector. For
starters, it will provide a networking forum for the mining community here as more of these firms
head to the SGX, founding club members Brian Gordon and Sebastian Jones said yesterday.

One key pull factor for companies in the sector to list in Singapore has been the introduction last
year of new mainboard listing rules for companies operating in the sector.

The rules allow such firms not yet in production - and so unable to meet current listing rules for profit,
operating revenue and positive cash flows - to list if they have a market capitalisation of at least $300
million.

Another draw is the Republic's rise as a private wealth centre, especially as new liquidity has left the
sector amid a slowing world economy and a rising supply of metals and minerals.

"The pool of available capital for an industry that's capital-intensive is limited now. Singapore offers
those businesses ways to raise money in ways they can't get in other jurisdictions," said Mr Gordon,
a partner at the Singapore office of international law firmHolman Fenwick Willan.
Mr Jones, a Singapore-based corporate financier handling mining transactions at Canaccord
Genuity, said his firm is acting as financial adviser to a handful of mining companies looking to list
on the SGX in the next 12 to 18 months. These firms, which range from small-cap mining
companies to large producers, are from Indonesia, China, Africa, Central Asia, Malaysia and the
Philippines.
"It's acknowledged that the mining sector in Singapore isn't as mature as the established mining
hubs of London, Toronto or Australia. But, while those markets remain capital-constrained,
Singapore is an increasingly attractive destination for small and medium-sized miners seeking
development capital," he said.

The SGX's ability to tap international capital is a big pull factor for other resource firms, particularly
those in Australia, in the light of a recent move by Linc Energy to shift its listing from Australia to
Singapore.
This comes as Australian interest in resources and mining stocks, which dominated listings on the
Australian Securities Exchange (ASX) over the past few years, wanes, and the energy and
resources sector is hurt by weak commodity markets.

Page32of315©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."Despite not having natural mineral wealth of its own, Singapore is well-positioned to capitalise on
the sector due to its proximity to regional mining activity, availability of capital and increasing sector
expertise," said Mr Graeme Robertson, honorary chairman of the club's advisory panel.

The club's sponsors include mainboard-listed Noble Group; law firms Holman Fenwick Willan and
Linklaters; Canaccord Genuity; AMC Consultants, an Australian mining consultancy; Intrasia
Capital, a private equity firm; and Orica, a mining services company.

gleong@sph.com.sg
Singapore Mining Club founding members Brian Gordon (above) and Sebastian Jones. For starters,
the club will provide a networking forum.
sgxlsi : Singapore Exchange Limited
i831 : Financial Investments | i83106 : Securities/Commodity Exchange Activities | ifinal : Financial
Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
singp : Singapore | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
seasiaz : Southeast Asia
Singapore Press Holdings Limited
Document STIMES0020140319ea3k0001f

ART

CO
IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

Page33of315©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.