Miners witness period of consolidation; Orbis Gold , Sheffield Resources named likely targets

Drilling Down Under; Blog

SE
HD Miners witness period of consolidation; Orbis Gold, Sheffield Resources named likely targets
BY
Angela Kean
WC 1,685 words
PD
20 June 2014
SN
SNL Metals & Mining Daily: East Edition
SC
SNLMMDE
VOL Issue: 81011
LA
CY
LP

English
Copyright 2014. SNL Financial LC

TD

The current pressure on the global mining sector is driving an increase in consolidation as the downturn
provides more opportunities for cheap acquisitions and companies turn to cut-rate assets to try to lower
the costs of their broader operations.

The sector has witnessed several takeover attempts in recent times, with the trend likely to continue for
some time against a backdrop of continuously declining commodity prices, a softening in Chinese
demand and oversupply in some key commodity markets.

"On the acquisitions side I think we will be seeing a fair few bargains come to the market with the current
state of the industry," Breakaway Research senior resource analyst Mark Gordon told SNL Metals &
Mining.

He said that while miners are unable to control commodity prices, they can control their costs, and
consolidation is a means of bringing the costs of an operation down. "If you can bring your costs down,
you have a chance of making a reasonable margin. Consolidation can help that as well," Gordon said.

MineLife senior resource analyst Gavin Wendt told SNL that the recent interest in Western Australian
gold assets is all part of a consolidation process.
"A good example is the producing gold assets at Meekatharra that were once quite profitable and have
been owned by a succession of smaller companies that have tried to make a go of them on their own," he
said.
"What you're seeing are operations that on their own might not be commercial or are quite marginal, but
can be quite profitable if you're an existing player in the region, then it's a consolidation play, and that's
effectively what it is for [Norton Gold Fields Ltd.]"
Norton, which is 89% owned by Chinese miner Zijin Mining Group Co. Ltd., recently made a play for
junior dual-listed gold hopeful Bullabulling Gold Ltd. to try to secure more feed for its 3.3
million-tonne-per-annum Paddington mill.

Bullabulling appears to be holding out for a better offer after it knocked back Norton's higher takeover bid
of 8 Australian cents per share because it considers the offer "inadequate" and "opportunistic."

However, Wendt said the likelihood of a rival offer for Bullabulling emerging is slim. "Norton is very patient
and at the end of the day I think with a company like Bullabulling there are not a lot of alternatives around
at the present time. I think they would've presented themselves," he said.

RFC Ambrian head of research Duncan Hughes believes another offer is unlikely to materialize given the
state of the gold sector at the moment. "Obviously in a stronger gold market, targets would expect a
higher premium and valuation, but we are just not there at the moment," he said in a note to clients.
"Norton is well placed to fund the 3.5 [million-ounce] gold project near Kalgoorlie to development, while
Bullabulling is unlikely to be able to do this on its own."

Deutsche Bank research analyst Brett McKay told SNL that Norton, which so far has only gained a 17%
stake in Bullabulling, has some way to go to get the deal over the line.

Page170of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."These things tend to be a bit easier to get through once the directors recommend the deal, and directors
are not coming to the party on the Bullabulling side yet," he said. "I guess everyone's got a price, and
maybe their price isn't anywhere near what Norton are offering."

RFC Ambrian, which is acting as adviser to Norton on the takeover, said investors appear to like the
sweetener on the offer, which was originally priced at 7 cents per share.
On June 17, the day after Norton announced the 1-cent-per-share increase in its bid, more than 1 million
Bullabulling shares changed hands, driving the price up to a high of 7.9 cents from the previous day's
close of 7.1 cents. Shares are currently trading at 7.5 cents, which is a 39% increase on the 5.4 cents
they were trading at the day Norton revealed its takeover offer to the market.
Norton's revised offer is conditional on the company's obtaining a 30% stake in Bullabulling before the
end of June.
China a lead player
China is behind a number of takeover plays, with Baosteel Resources International Co. Ltd., a wholly
owned subsidiary of Shanghai-based Baosteel Group Corp., having placed a A$1.4 billion cash bid on
the table for ASX-listed coal and iron ore explorer Aquila Resources Ltd.

Baosteel, which has partnered with a subsidiary of rail freight operator Aurizon Holdings Ltd. on the
takeover, has expressed its frustration at how long it is taking Aquila to bring the West Pilbara iron ore
project in Western Australia into production.
Aquila has struggled in recent times to lock in the roughly A$4.5 billion needed to fund its share of the
50%-owned Eagle Downs hard coking coal and 50%-owned West Pilbara iron ore developments, and is
unlikely to be able to access that level of funding anytime soon given market conditions, according to
industry watchers.
The company was hesitant to accept Baosteel and Aurizon's joint A$3.40-cash-per-share offer from the
outset, instead engaging in talks with minority shareholder Mineral Resources Ltd. to see if the two
companies could strike a better deal.

However, Aquila and Mineral Resources could not agree on the terms of an all-scrip offer, which was
equivalent to A$3.75 per Aquila share, prompting Aquila to recommend that its shareholders accept
Baosteel and Aurizon's offer.
Executive Chairman and CEO Tony Poli, who owns a 28.92% stake in the company, has indicated he
plans to accept the offer.
There is quite a bit at stake for Aquila if Baosteel and Aurizon's bid fails, with Baosteel reportedly
threatening that if it is not successful in the takeover, the West Pilbara project will receive no financial or
other type of support from China.

Wendt said Baosteel's pulling support from the project would create a high level of uncertainty
surrounding its development. "I think Baosteel is past the point of just being a shareholder in the
company, they want this thing to happen," he said. "So I guess they're talking tough in terms of saying
'Look, we want the offer to succeed so we can get this project happening.'"
PanAust Ltd. is also the subject of a takeover bid by a Chinese firm. State-owned Guangdong Rising
Assets Management Co. Ltd. made a revised A$2.30-per-share, or roughly A$1.37 billion, cash offer for
the ASX-listed copper producer in mid-May.

However, PanAust has declared the offer too low and may well remain steadfast in its rejection until it gets
as much as A$1.67 billion, or A$2.80 per share, for the company, Baillieu Holst Ltd.'s head of mining
and energy research, Adrian Prendergast, told SNL in May.
Guangdong Rising, which is a major shareholder in the company with a 23% interest, originally proposed
A$2.20 per share.

Likely prospects
RFC Ambrian's Hughes tips ASX-listed explorer Orbis Gold Ltd. as a potential takeover target in the West
African gold space. He told SNL earlier in June that the company would have to be on the radar of
potential buyers.

Page171of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."In this market, grade is king. It always has been really, but it certainly is in this market, and Orbis has a
3.7 g/t orebody, 1.8 million ounces, it's in southern Burkina Faso, so a pretty good jurisdiction to be in
and it's got to be on the radar," he said.
"It's developing through a feasibility study as it is, and I think as the company continues to develop and a
bit more certainty is displayed over the quality of the assets … I think a major or another producer would
be able to view these results and get a lot more comfortable with it."
Orbis Gold is undertaking infill drilling at its Natougou gold project to upgrade the inferred resource to the
higher confidence indicated category, with results due out in a few weeks.

While McKay and Gordon declined to name any potential takeover targets, Wendt said he favored
Consolidated Tin Mines Ltd. and Sheffield Resources Ltd. as likely contenders.

Consolidated Tin is developing the Mount Garnet tin project near Cairns in northern Queensland. The
project is set to become an open pit mining operation processing 1 million tonnes per annum to produce
about 5,000 tonnes of tin in concentrate each year.
Wendt said the company already has a significant Chinese backer and is one of the few emerging
sources of tin.
Meanwhile, Sheffield Resources' main focus is mineral sands, although it also has projects in iron ore,
nickel, potash and talc, all located in Western Australia.
The company's flagship project is the Dampier project near Derby in the Canning Basin due to its
large-scale, high-grade, high in situ zircon content and potential to produce premium products.

In late May, Sheffield began prefeasibility, drilling and other work at its Thunderbird heavy mineral sands
project, which forms part of the Dampier property, after raising the required A$11.5 million to fund the
next phase of development.

McKay told SNL that there is currently a lot of uncertainty around underlying commodity prices, which is
prompting potential buyers to carefully consider their purchases.

"While we've got quite a lot of uncertainty around underlying commodity prices, then you're going to have
other corporates getting a bit shy around pulling the trigger on what could be seen as questionable deals,
or deals that they may have to defend quite rigorously in the current environment," he said.

"So I guess in that context, the better quality names are still key targets, and they are probably the ones
that have had some activity around them already."

IN

NS

CO mtisam : Orbis Gold Ltd | dorval : Aurizon Mines Ltd | dagg : DGR Global Limited | hclamn : Hecla Mining

Co
igoldm : Gold Ore Mining | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | imet : Mining/Quarrying | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cacqu : Acquisitions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | reqrmm :
Suggested Reading Metals/Mining | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | redit : Selection of Top
Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia

RE
IPD Industry News
PUB SNL Financial LC
AN

Document SNLMMDE020140625ea6k00010

Page172of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.