Pluton locked in receivership battle

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Pluton locked in receivership battle

Fraser Beattie
454 words
3 November 2014
Business News
WABN
English
© Copyright 2014 Business News Pty Ltd.

Pluton Resources is in the midst of a battle between creditors, with its major shareholder General
Nice Resources and secured creditor Rizhao Port Group Logistics fighting over who gets to appoint
receivers to the iron ore miner.

Pluton announced to the ASX today that Rizhao had appointed Ian Francis and Michael Ryan of FTI
Consulting as receivers, however, it argued that FTI and solicitor Mony De Kerloy's actions were not
permitted without consent from GNR.

Pluton, led by chairman Paul D'Sylva, said it had made repeated requests for details of the relevant
officer who authorised the appointment, but had been denied by FTI and Mony De Kerloy.
"The company's solicitors have notified all of (its) employees and suppliers and alerted them that
no company property or information is to be delivered to FTI until further notice," Pluton said in a
statement.
"GNR has advised the company that it will appoint a receiver and require that Rizhao withdraw the
appointment immediately."

Pluton said its advisers, Chimaera Capital Markets, had been in discussions with Rizhao and will be
meeting with them tomorrow to discuss the refinancing of the amount it owes the Chinese creditor.
"These initial discussions together with discussions with representatives of Wise Energy Group
have confirmed that the action taken appears to have been initiated by Wise," Pluton said.
Wise is Pluton's joint venture partner at the Cockatoo Island iron ore project in the Pilbara.

"Rizhao, Wise, FTI and Money De Kerloy have been notified that their actions have caused damage
to the company and all rights have been reserved."
Meanwhile, Watpac Civil & Mining, who is a shareholder and unsecured creditor of Pluton, said it
had taken steps to suspend its contract for work at Cockatoo Island, which it is already owed about
$19 million for.
"Watpac expects to meet with the receivers early this week, following which the company will
assess the status of the contract and whether to resume mining services at Cockatoo Island," the
Perth-based mining contractor said in a statement.

"As an unsecured creditor, Watpac will also consider its options in respect of the amounts owing to it
under the contract."

Last week, Pluton said Wise wanted to bump Pluton off as manager of the project and called for it to
halt mining operations.
The demand from Wise followed the failure of Pluton to complete a planned purchase of Wise
assets, which comprise a 50 per cent stake in the joint venture.

Pluton's shares have been suspended from trade in May and last traded at 3.4 cents per share.

Page36of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Watpac's share price closed 5.9 per cent lower at 79 cents per share today.

CO
IN

RE
PUB
AN

foteic : FTI Consulting Inc
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying | iacc : Accounting/Consulting | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | icnsl :
Business Consultancy
austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Business News Pty Ltd
Document WABN000020141103eab3000p1

Page37of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.