Meriton claims prize of jet fighter site - EXCLUSIVE -

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Features
Meriton claims prize of jet fighter site - EXCLUSIVE -

LISA ALLEN, APARTMENTS
329 words
15 March 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
1 - All-round Country
34
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

AMERICAN aerospace companyGoodrich Control Systems has reaped $47.5 million from the sale of
its Sydney headquarters to billionaire property developer Harry Triguboff.
Since 2002, Goodrich has used the site on Epsom Road, Zetland, for the repair and maintenance of
defence-related jet aircraft, but it appears the value of the land was worth more than the company's
Australian business.

Goodrich paid just $3.163m for the 10,330sq m site 12 years ago, according to RP Data.

Land prices in Zetland have since experienced strong increases because of the popularity of the area,
with apartment buyers spurred on by the NSW government's decision to master plan the precinct.
It is understood Mr Triguboff's Meriton Apartments beat local developers and Chinese players to
snare the site about 5km south of the CBD. It is zoned residential and forms part of the
government-driven Green Square development. The deal was negotiated by Jones Lang LaSalle's
head of metropolitan sales NSW, Sam Brewer, who was unavailable for comment yesterday.
The Meriton group said the land could accommodate about 250 apartments with a gross end value of
more than $200m.
Popular sites such as Epsom Road typically draw up to 100 inquiries from local and Chinese
property developers, according to several agents.
It is understood Meriton liked the site because it abutts a public park and the yet-to-be-built Green
Square Aquatic Centre. The adjoining site is being used as a council depot, but according to state
planning guidelines it will eventually be redeveloped as a mixed-use or residential project. Meriton
has enjoyed strong sales at its nearby Victoria Park development and has flagged its intention to
fast-track a huge project at Pagewood in Sydney's southeast.
That development will be on the former British American Tobaccosite that Meriton bought for $142m
last year. It will have about 2000 apartments.

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New
South Wales
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140314ea3f0005x

Page97of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.