Mutiny creates a new order

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Wealth
Mutiny creates a new order

Barry Fitzgerald
1,150 words
26 August 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
24
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

The goldminer represents a clean slate for investors
Mutiny Gold (MYG) THE Western world gold industry is making some real headway in reducing all-in
costs in the face of weaker gold prices.

The industry became so used to the 12-year bull run in gold prices that controlling costs was an
afterthought — until the gold price was smashed last year, that is. Cost-cutting is the new mantra.
On estimates by Citi analysts, “only’’ 40 per cent of global gold production is now burning cash. The
good news in that is that the cash-burn rate was 70 per in December last year.

There are several tricks at the disposal of goldminers to rein in costs — the prioritising of higher grade
ores, cutting capital, exploration and corporate costs and, heaven forbid, taking pay cuts.

There is going to be a longer-term impact to all that, and it is not nice. But the mass move by the
industry to get its costs in order raises another question.

What if the industry could start again, a clean-sheet approach, as it where? It is a bit of dreaming,
except when it comes to those that are only now planning a move into production.
A little thing called Mutiny Gold is a case in point. It owns the Deflector gold-copper project 160km
east of Geraldton in Western Australia.

More to the point is that it had gained a new management team, headed up by the highly rated Tony
James, formerly of Avoca/Alacer and Northern Star fame.

Deflector needed a fresh set of eyes too, given the thing has gone through a dozen owners or so over
the years and the region’s broader reputation has suffered from past metallurgical stuff-ups.

Under James, the metallurgical misadventures of the past will not be occurring. But neater than that is
his revised development planning for what is a handy reserve (not resource) at Deflector of 1.78
million tonnes grading 5.6 grams of gold a tonne and 0.9 per cent copper.
Instead of mining a big chunk of WA to get the stuff out, the new plan is for a significantly reduced
starter pit that will reduce open-cut volumes by 80 per cent while also enabling quicker access to the
rich underground lodes.

Mine life is pulled back from 6.2 years to 5.9 years under the new plan but the net present value is
enhanced, and there is a reduction in all-in costs from $801 an ounce to $723 an ounce.
Mutiny still has to overcome the capex hurdle, with the new approach to cost a forecast $67.6 million,
up from $62m for the bigger open-cut plan.

Page17of416©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.But the implied robust economics of the thing — and the upside from regional life extending
discoveries — has most tipping that a 60-40 debt-to-equity funding package should not be too difficult
in this low interest rate world.

Mutiny was trading yesterday at 3.3c for a market capitalisation of some $22.4m. Patersons analyst
Rob Brierley has had a look at Mutiny’s “buried treasure’’ potential and has set a share price target of
7c.

Western Areas (WSA) NICKEL producer Western Areas was being well supported yesterday on the
strength of its better-than-expected June year profit of $25.5m, and the resultant bump-up in its
dividend.

The result reflected the benefit of the nickel price surge in the second (June) half in response to
Indonesia actually following through with its longstanding threat to ban exports of unprocessed laterite
nickel ore, choking supplies to China’s nickel pig iron industry.

All very interesting. But not as interesting as a move by WSA executive director David Southam at
yesterday’s investor conference call on the profit to put a firewall around the group’s market rating
while BHP Billiton decides what to do with its Nickel West business.

There have been suggestions by the … err …. the press … that BHP could close Nickel West, even
though BHP chief executive Andrew Mackenzie said last week that the sales process for part or all of
the business was continuing.

WSA supplies Nickel West with nickel concentrates, so some would have it that a closure rather than a
sale would have to be negative for WSA.

Far from it, Southam said yesterday. “We’ve seen press around closure. People forget that if that were
to happen — and I think the likelihood of that is minute — you would probably see the nickel price go
up a couple of bucks a pound because it would take so much product out of market.’’ Southam said
that besides, selling concentrate is not a problem, as the 25 interested parties from here there and
everywhere that have lined up for the re-tender of its other supply contract to China’s Jinchuan attests.

Southam didn’t say so but a more likely scenario is that BHP finds a buyer for Nickel West who then
has to set about securing concentrates supplies for the long term, putting even greater strategic appeal
on WSA’s existing BHP contract (expires 2017) and the one with Jinchuan (expires this December).

Energia Minerals (EMX) FURTHER evidence emerged yesterday of green shoots sprouting in the
capital-starved junior resources sector.

It came courtesy of an $8m raising with some heavy-hitter support for Energia Minerals, with the funds
to be used to fast-track the assessment and possible development of its Gorno zinc project in northern
Italy.
Energia has been best known for its uranium interests but with prices for the nuclear fuel in the
doldrums, and zinc prices taking off, Gorno is now the key focus.

The hard-to-please Euroz is to place $6m of Energia stock with its clients at 2.5c a share and there will
be an underwritten $2m entitlement issue to shareholders at the same price.
The fundraising also represents a bit of recycling of iron ore profits in to zinc, the price of which has
shot 15 per cent higher this year on looming supply shortages caused by notable closures here and
overseas.

The recycling reference is because Alexander Burns, who is supporting the capital raising for Gorno, is
best known as being the managing director of iron ore group Sphere Minerals when it was taken over
by Xstrata for $514m in November 2010.

Gorno represents a near-term development opportunity. It was mined by Italian giant ENI up until the
mid-1980s, when the government told ENI to focus on its energy interests, which it has done rather
well.Gorno has historical production of some 6 million tonnes at an average grade of 14.5 per cent
combined zinc and lead. Last week Beer & Co analyst Pieter Bruinstroop came up with a risked
valuation of Energia of 14.3c a share.

CO
IN

bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22472 : Precious Metals | i22 : Primary Metals | i224 : Non-ferrous Metals |
ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying

Page18of416©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS
RE
PUB
AN

ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140825ea8q0005a

Page19of416©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.