Can Telstra's share price keep on rising?

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Can Telstra's share price keep on rising?

Bulls and bears David Ramli
650 words
19 May 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
16
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Telstra chief executive David Thodey has truly seen feast and famine during his tenure at Australia's
biggest telecommunications provider.

He was forced to issue profit warnings soon after taking over from his controversial US predecessor,
Sol Trujillo, and experienced shareholder pain as Telstra's share price tumbled to the $2.60 mark in
2010.

But last week, on the eve of his fifth year at Telstra, Mr Thodey had the pleasure of seeing the
company trade at $5.29 a share – a price it hasn't hit since early 2005.

The question now is whether Telstra has the assets, strategy and resources to keep growing profits
and dividends to continue boosting its share price.

The answer from most appears to be "yes", but with caveats.

A key driver of Telstra's recent share price rise is its large free cash flow gained by selling off a
series of non-core assets including a 70 per cent stake in Sensis and Hong Kong mobile provider
CSL. Analysts have valued the cash pile at up to $7 billion.
Most believe Telstra will spend low single-digit billions buying Asian players to further its strategy of
providing technology services in the region, with the rest going back to shareholders as increased
dividends.
The company will detail its plan for the cash splash as part of its full-year results in August. But that
will be small potatoes compared to the $11 billion set to come from NBN Co in exchange for Telstra
handing over control of its ageing copper network.Shareholders won't suffer

A renegotiation of the deal is under way but Telstra and NBN Co are in furious agreement over the
fact that shareholders will not be left worse off.

Tyndall Asset Management portfolio manager Michael Maughan said he continued to see Telstra as
a solid, defensive stock.

"[The industry] is continuing to be rational and there are no signs of irrational competition. In terms
of technology, Telstra was "at the front of the curve" in mobile networks and NBN would take the
fixed-line risk.

"There's no reason why it shouldn't continue to be a solid defensive play and there's every reason to
think the yield can support the stock," he said.

Bank of America Merrill Lynch analyst Sameer Chopra is considered to be bullish on Telstra and
has given it a "buy" rating while telling clients it could reach $6 a share.

Page225of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Much of this is thanks to Telstra's highly successful mobile network winning customers and market
share while increasing profitability thanks to industry-wide price hikes, he said.

Major question marks remain as to whether its Asian business ventures can succeed against
significant global and regional rivals while replacing lost revenue. The asset sales may have
generated billions of dollars but CSL, alone, made more than $1 billion in revenues during
financial year 2013.

CIMB analyst Ian Martin told clients Telstra can climb higher with a price target of $5.73 a share.
He sees the company's global arm as having the infrastructure needed for a rapid increase in
customers and services with a well-managed programme adding 5 per cent to earnings a share.

But Goldman Sachs research analyst Raymond Tong reminded clients of a key risk after the NBN
strips Telstra of its copper business; a dramatic increase in competition brought on by a level
playing field, especially in rural areas.

"While our channel checks indicate Telstra has been hitting 60 to 65 per cent share targets in NBN
areas, we expect this will come under pressure with the entry of low-cost operators Dodo and TPG
Telecom."

Where most customers in the bush are forced to pick Telstra as the only option, the NBN and other
programs are set to decrease its dominance.

CO
IN
NS
RE
PUB
AN

tcoma : Telstra Corporation Ltd
i7902 : Telecommunications
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140518ea5j0001o

Page226of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.