Grand designs for southern skyline

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Local
Grand designs for southern skyline

BEN WILMOT
433 words
24 January 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
1 - All-round Country
4
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

SINGAPORE'S Aspial Corporation has unveiled plans to build Australia's second tallest tower behind
the famed Surfers Paradise landmark Q1 Tower.
The almost unknown offshore company has snapped up the site in Melbourne's Southbank district,
known as the Australia 108 project, that can accommodate a 312m tower, which will be the city's
tallest.

The tower could have been even higher at 388m, as approved by Victorian Planning Minister
Matthew Guy, but at this height it would have been in the emergency flight path for Melbourne's
Essendon Airport.
The site was sold by the Australia 108 consortium, which includes high-profile architect Nonda
Katsalidis, whose firm Fender Katsalidis designed the tower, businessman Adrian Valmorbida and
developer Benni Aroni, who represented a local syndicate, and some Malaysian partners.

Mr Katsalidis and Mr Aroni were also two of the developers of the nearby Eureka Tower -- which is
currently Melbourne's tallest skyscraper at about 279m -- and had been ready to develop the
Australia 108 themselves. After kicking off a process to find a hotel operator, they were bombarded
with approaches from offshore apartment developers and hotel owners.

Deep-pocketed international companies have dominated the Melbourne market in recent years as
they are able to borrow cheaply offshore and sell apartments off-the-plan in hot markets like
Singapore, Malaysia and China. Their projects are overhauling Melbourne's skyline and more hotel
and apartment developments are in the wings.
Aspial paid $42.3 million for the site overlooking the Yarra River and most floors will be devoted to
upmarket apartments, with some retail and office components, with the top floor to be made
accessible to the public.

``We are truly humbled, yet excited to be involved in this monumental project. It is certainly a
groundbreaking milestone for Aspial to play a part in the development of the tallest skyscraper in
Melbourne, which will soon lend its compelling presence to the skyline,'' Aspial chief executive Koh
Wee Seng said.

The Singaporean developer hopes that the tower will stand among the world's most iconic, citing
Shanghai's World Financial Centre and Oriental Pearl Tower in China, the Tokyo Metropolitan
Government Office in Japan, and Marina Bay Sands SkyPark in Singapore, as inspirations.
The purchase was brokered by Mark Wizel and Josh Rutman of real estate agency CBRE.
Apartment sales for Australia 108 are expected to be launched in July and Mr Wizel said Aspial
should be able to keep its record as the Melbourne's tallest tower for some time as few comparable
sites were available.

CO

leehwa : Aspial Corporation Limited

Page4of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

i491 : Jewelry/Silverware | icnp : Consumer Goods
gplan : Urban Planning/Development | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International
Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics
austr : Australia | singp : Singapore | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia
Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140123ea1o0000n

Page5of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.