Weekly news through July 25

The Week in Asian Real Estate; Exclusive

SE
HD Weekly news through July 25
BY Megan Zhao
WC 815 words
PD
SN
SC
VOL Issue: 81509
LA
CY
LP

English
Copyright 2014. SNL Financial LC

29 July 2014
SNL Real Estate Daily: Asia-Pacific Edition
REAP

Deal of the week
Cathay Life's purchase this week of the Woolgate Exchange office building marks the first London
acquisition by a Taiwanese insurance firm.

TD

The company, one of Taiwan's largest insurers, agreed to buy the 340,000-square-foot trophy asset on
Basinghall Street in the city for £320 million. The price reflects a net initial yield of just over 5.1%, higher
than the current prime office yields in Taipei of around 2% to 2.5%, noted CoStar UK, which also
described the deal as "long awaited" and likely to be the beginning of a stream of Taiwanese investors
into London's commercial property market.
Taiwan's Financial Supervisory Commission permitted insurance companies to invest in real estate
abroad in April 2013.

REITs in the news
* Following the proposals published in January, Hong Kong's Securities and Futures Commission has
concluded that REITs will be allowed to invest as much as 10% of their gross asset value in property
development or redevelopment, from which they were effectively barred by existing rules.

REITs will also be allowed in invest in financial instruments that help improve capital management and
cash flow.
The new rules place Hong Kong REITs on a more competitive footing with other countries, Asian Investor
said, citing Peter Verwer, new chief executive of APREA.
The planned change is expected to free HK$34 billion for property development and rebuilding,
Bloomberg News reported, citing Victor Yeung, who runs Admiral Investment Ltd.

* In Japan, Sumitomo is looking to tap investors for the launch of a privately placed REIT, the Nikkei Asian
Review reported.

The private REIT's portfolio will include properties owned by the Japanese trading house. The REIT will
be managed by Sumisho Realty Management, a subsidiary of Sumitomo, and will invest in office
buildings, commercial and logistics facilities and other real estate.

Other activity
* Evergrande Real Estate Group Ltd. is offering zero-interest down-payment loans, skirting government
rules that require a minimum deposit of 30%, the South China Morning Post reported. The trend among
Chinese developers to offer easy credit as part of efforts to keep sales on track also highlights the risk of
a broader industry correction if buyers default, the publication noted.
* Chinese conglomerate Greenland Holding Group, which already has A$1.4 billion of residential
development projects in Australia, is looking to expand its portfolio as it hunts for more sites in Sydney
and the Gold Coast market.

Page64of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.It has joined forces with James Packer's Crown Resorts to bid for the multibillion-dollar Queens Wharf
casino and tourism precinct in the central business district of Brisbane, Australia.
* Australand Property Group reported a 49% rise in net profit after tax and a 30% rise in operating profit
after tax for the half-year ended June 30. The group's operating profit after tax totaled A$80.8 million and
net profit after tax was A$131.5 million.
* AustralianSuper, the country's largest superannuation fund, is planning to invest up to A$1 billion into
residential master planned community projects.

Best of the Web
What can you buy for the median house price in each Australian capital city?: News.com.au compares
housing affordability in Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Perth, Adelaide, Hobart, Canberra and Darwin.
West Kowloon Cultural District Authority unveils concept design for the park: The authority provides a
glimpse of the high-profile future park at Hong Kong's West Kowloon, which would function as a green
open space to promote cultural activities in the city.

Now Featured on SNL
Data Dispatch: Asia-Pacific real estate capital raising nears US$30.23B YTD: Capital raising efforts for
SNL-covered Asia-Pacific real estate companies resulted in roughly $30.23 billion of gross proceeds
year-to-date through July 15, compared to about $39.63 billion in the year-ago period.
The Eastern Front: China real estate M&A wave surges: China's real estate market slump has cast
plenty of downbeat sentiment, but it also offers opportunities to shop for deals that might not be available
in a bull market, industry observers told SNL Financial.
The Eastern Front: Greenland Holding Group on hunt for more overseas investment: Chinese
state-backed behemoth Greenland Holding Group said that it paired up with Crown Resorts to vie for the
rights to a multibillion-dollar casino development in Brisbane, Australia.

IPO Monitor for the week ending July 23: Companies with IPO stories for the week come from the U.K.
and Singapore. The IPO Monitor is a feature that tracks international real estate companies debuting on
the exchanges.
Hires and Fires: European/Asian real estate moves through July 22: SNL Financial presents a weekly
rundown of recent significant management and board changes and personnel moves in the European
and Asia-Pacific real estate industries.

NS

CO fsctai : Financial Supervisory Commission | hksafc : Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission
IN
i815020602 : Real Estate Investment Trusts | ireest : Real Estate | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial
Vehicles | i8150206 : Investment Trusts/Funds | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ifinal : Financial Services
| iinv : Investing/Securities
ereal : Real Estate Markets | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators |
ecat : Economic News
austr : Australia | taiwan : Taiwan | hkong : Hong Kong | china : China | brisbn : Brisbane | apacz : Asia
Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz
: Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | queensl :
Queensland

RE

IPD Industry News
PUB SNL Financial LC
AN

Document REAP000020140801ea7t00003

Page65of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.