Wasabi Energy Limited - Notice of Meeting and Corporate Update

HD Wasabi Energy Limited - Notice of Meeting and Corporate Update
WC 3,300 words
PD 22 April 2014
SN ENP Newswire
SC ENPNEW
LA English
CY
LP

(c) 2014, Electronic News Publishing. All Rights Reserved.

TD

Release date - 18042014
The Directors of Wasabi Energy Limited advise that, in accordance with the Deed of Company
Arrangement announced on 28 February 2014, a General Meeting of the Company will be held at Level
25, Bourke Place, 600 Bourke Street, Melbourne, VIC, 3000, Australia on 16th May 2014 at 11.30am.

A Notice of Meeting and explanatory statement have today been posted to shareholders and is available
on the ASX and the Group’s website www.wasabienergy.com.

The business of the Meeting is to implement the DOCA and to allow for the recapitalisation of the
Company in order to preserve as much value in the Group as possible through its ownership of the Kalina
Cycle Technology and its investment in Wasabi New Energy Asia and other entities. The Company will
also propose a resolution at the Meeting to change the Company’s name to Enhanced Systems
Technologies Limited.
The Meeting will, if all resolutions are approved, result in the Company reducing its debt from Au$16
million (and an additional Au$5.7 million of contingent debt) to Au$500,000 remaining to the first ranking
secured creditor. It will also allow for approximately Au$1 million of new funds to be lent into the
Company (also on a secured basis) ahead of a proposed rights issue to shareholders, which is expected
to be announced in the second quarter of 2014 (the ‘Rights Issue’).
These funds will allow the Company to continue to operate and fund the underlying activities of the Group
whilst the DOCA is being implemented. These funds are all expected to be converted at the time of, and
on the same terms as, the Rights Issue. The terms of the Rights Issue are yet to be finalised and further
details of this process will be announced as appropriate. The Company is working to ensure that the
Rights Issue is fully underwritten to provide certainty of funds.

During the recent restructuring period, the directors have performed a review of the business and have
determined to restructure the Group to provide a more appropriate strategy for the Company to create
value for its shareholders.
As a result, the Company will be focused on industrialisation of the Kalina Cycle Technology through a
new subsidiary, Enhanced Power Technologies (‘EPT’), and will consolidate the company’s IP and
knowhow into this company specifically focused on building commercial relationships with global EPC
companies, with the objective of achieving near-term scalability of the technology. The Company will also
continue with the development of Wasabi New Energy Asia Limited (‘WNEA’).
The Company previously stated its aim was to be an Independent Power Producer (IPP) and to have
25MWe of owned power generation under construction or in operation by 2015. Following the review of
the business, the Company intends to focus on industrialisation of technologies, and in particular its
patented power cycle technology.

The Group is not now aiming to become an IPP, however as the Group and, in particular, WNEA , moves
through its business plan and the technology is deployed through major partners, the Group may achieve
indirect ownership of significant power generation in the longer term, without the high capital cost.

Operational Update

Page96of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The following update provides a short summary of the Group as at this time. Negotiations in respect of
some of the Group’s projects and determination of financing requirements remain ongoing and additional
details will be provided by the Company as required or in a disclosure document anticipated to be issued
in conjunction with a Rights Issue to all shareholders.
Wasabi New Energy Asia Limited (WNEA).
In November 2012, the Company announced that it was establishing WNEA to own:
1. 50.5% of Shanghai Shenghe New Energy Resources Science & Technology Co Ltd (‘SSNE’), the
current Kalina Cycle licensee for Mainland China, Taiwan, Hong Kong and Macau;

2. 100% of the royalty income stream from SSNE currently attributable to its use of the Kalina Cycle and

3. A new Kalina Cycle licence covering Japan, South Korea, Indonesia, Philippines, Thailand, Vietnam,
Malaysia, Singapore, Myanmar, Cambodia, Laos, Brunei, North Korea and Mongolia.
Wasabi owns 66.7% of WNEA and has a loan to WNEA of approximately $6 million.

Over the course of 2013, SSNE continued to develop its EPC projects with particular emphasis on the
building of a 4 MWe Kalina Cycle plant at the Sinopec Hainan refinery as well as a 7.5 MWe Enhanced
Rankine power plant at China Building Materials Group’s Guizhou cement plant. These projects are
continuing and SSNE is actively engaging with parties for new projects in a number of sectors.

While the Wasabi administration process did not directly affect WNEA, it has required ongoing dialogue
with all stakeholders in order to maintain WNEA’s development over the Administration period. WNEAs
fundraising process is continuing.
WNEA will continue to work with Canaccord Hong Kong for its initial capital raising and IPO on the
Singapore Catalyst Exchange. The Chairman of Wasabi, Mr. John Byrne, and the directors of WNEA and
in particular Mr Yu, who is also CEO of SSNE, are the key management personnel working to deliver the
funding and listing of WNEA. The intention is to complete the listing of WNEA as soon as possible during
2014.

The final issue price has yet to be determined but an indicative price of 50c per share has been used in
the marketing efforts to date. The value of WNEA, if listed at $0.50 per share, will be $20 million to the
Company based on its current ownership holding WNEA has a loan facility from China Shiny Holdings
Limited (‘China Shiny’). China Shiny has a guarantee in respect of the full amount owing under the loan
facility and therefore has a right to make a claim directly against the Company.
The maximum drawdown amount of the loan facility is RMB 18,000,000 and the Company’s maximum
contingent liability to China Shiny has been admitted by the Administrator as AUD $3,479,546.85 and the
maximum number of Shares that it may be required to issue in respect of the same is 6,959,094 (which
would be issued pursuant to the DOCA as to 2 shares for each $1 claimed).
In addition, there is a further contingent liability in respect of the Additional Guarantors of the China Shiny
loan for which a further 4,300,000 Shares may be required to be issued pursuant to the DOCA as to 2
shares for each $1 claimed. Ideally the Company would like to be able to resolve WNEA’s liabilities to
China Shiny, thus enabling the Company to become the secured lender to WNEA.

Enhanced Power Technologies
Following completion of the strategic review into the operations of the Company and discussions with a
number of strategic partners, the Company has decided to restructure its power division by establishing
Enhanced Power Technologies a 100% owned subsidiary focused on the commercialisation of the Kalina
Cycle technology in all areas outside of Asia.
EPT will consolidate the company’s IP and knowhow into a company specifically focused on building
commercial relationships with global EPC companies, with the objective of achieving near-term scalability
and adoption of the technology.

EPT will work collaboratively with major industry partners to provide specialised engineering and IP
development opportunities for those partners within their sectors. In the near term EPT will be funded by
the Company, however it is anticipated that as collaboration agreements are formalised with EPC
partners, EPT will be self-funding as it will generate revenues through licensing, collaboration and
engineering fees.

Page97of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Notwithstanding the above, the EPT team will also encompass both the existing opportunities in Imparator
and work of the engineering team at Recurrent in the US, however these existing opportunities will be held
in their current structure as set out below.
Imparator Green Energy Plc
In 2011, the Company established Imparator Green Energy Plc, and its subsidiary Imparator Enerji,
(‘Imparator’) to own the Kalina Cycle license for Turkey and to develop a waste heat and geothermal
business utilising the technology.

The main project within Turkey was the Tuzla geothermal power project in which Imparator held an option
to purchase 50% of the project. In December 2013, due to the failed fundraising by the Company and
subsequent administration process, Imparator was unable to make the final option payment required within
the time frames of the option agreement.

Imparator retains certain rights in relation to the project and is continuing to discuss the situation with its
associates in Turkey, as well as with the owners of the Tuzla project, however there is no certainty that
Imparator will be able to re-negotiate the purchase of an interest in Tuzla.
Imparator will source external funds for this purchase should the negotiations be successful. Imparator
has undertaken diligence on a number of other projects within Turkey and there remain opportunities to
participate in other projects where using the Kalina Cycle technology can provide significant advantages.

Wasabi currently owns 100% of Imparator and is considering its options with regards to partners and
investors in order to deliver on the development opportunities in Turkey. Imparator will undertake its own
funding process to progress its business in the future, which may result in Wasabi’s ownership of
Imparator being diluted.

KCT Power/Recurrent Engineering

Wasabi owns 100% of KCT Power, which has an engineering team through its wholly owned subsidiary in
the US, Recurrent. KCT and Recurrent own the numerous patents under which the Kalina Cycle
technology has been developed and licensed around the world. KCT issued an exclusive license to
FLSmidth in 2011 for the cement industry and has been working closely with them on two projects, the
8.6MWe DG Khan Khaipur Cement plant in Pakistan and 4.75MWE Star Cement in the UAE.

Both of the projects have taken longer than expected to reach final commissioning due to various issues
with the procurement and installation of items, however the Kalina Cycle aspects of both of the projects
were delivered on time by KCT/Recurrent. The DG Khan Kalina plant has been operating as part of the
commissioning process however, the expected waste heat from the cement process has not yet become
available. Despite this, the power generated by the Kalina Cycle system is in line with the projected
performance based on these reduced parameters.

KCT is in discussion with FLSmidth in relation to milestone payments for the DG Khan plant and has been
receiving payments for commissioning support at the Star Cement plant.

Other Projects
The Company has not progressed the refurbishment of the Husavik Power Plant as quickly as anticipated
and is considering the most appropriate structure for completing this project. EPT will co-ordinate the
process with KCT to achieve a beneficial outcome for the various stakeholders in Husavik. Further details
will be provided on this in the future.

In Germany, the Taufkirchen 4.3MWe geothermal combined heat and power project, focused on district
heating, is progressing following receipt of the required regulatory approvals in August 2013. The owners
of the project anticipate completion of this project in 2015.

The Group’s involvement in this project is through the licence of the Kalina Cycle technology and an
engineering contract. In Japan, the engineers from Recurrent completed their engineering contract with
GERD in relation to the 50kWe Ecogen micro power plants. Discussions are ongoing as to future projects
in Japan.

Other Assets

Wasabi maintains an ownership in additional assets. These include CleanTeq Holdings Limited (ASX:
CLQ), Lignol Energy Corporation (TSX-V: LEC) and Aqua Guardian Group Limited. CleanTeQ, a water
treatment and resource recovery company, has recently closed a placement in March 2014 for
approximately $4.6 million at 5c per share.

Page98of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.This placement allows it to strengthen its balance sheet and to fund the delivery of their pipeline of new
projects. The major lender to CleanTeq, Mr. Robert Friedland, participated in the placement to maintain his
existing interest in CleanTeQ at 19.9%.

Lignol, a producer of biofuels, biochemicals and renewable materials from waste biomass, has recently
purchased 100% of Territory Biofuels Limited which owns a 140 million litre per annum Biodiesal refinery
in Darwin, Australia.
In conjuction with this purchase, Lignol has signed a Memorandum of Understanding with Milio
International for a JV. Under this proposed JV, Milio will provide funding for up to 120,000 tonnes per
annum of feedstock and provide the marketing and sales for the biodiesel produced. This facility is
expected to be up to $25 million per annum at full capacity.
Lignol have also signed a Memorandum of Understanding with M-Energy Co Ltd as a key technology
partner for the restart of the Territory Biofuels plant. M-Energy have a patented pre-treatment plant that
allows the use of low-cost, sustainably certified high free fatty acid waste feedstocks to produce biodiesel.
M-Energy have 3 operating biodiesel plants in Korea. Aqua Guardian Group, the owner of the
AquaArmour product, is in discussions with a major partner for operations in Australia, Southern Africa
and South America. Further details in relation to this will be provided in the near future.
Augut Clean Energy Pty Limited
In May 2013, the Company announced it had entered into a subscription agreement with Augut Clean
Energy Pty Limited (Augut) for a placement in the Company as well as into WNEA. In July 2013 the
Company had still not received funds from Augut and issued a notice of demand for the monies.
Subsequently Augut was placed into liquidation and it is unlikely that any value will be received in relation
to the proposed placement.

Wasabi had intended to own 62% of AAP Carbon which was to be the Kalina Cycle licensee for Southern
Africa. However, the issue of the license and integration of the AAP Carbon team into the broader Group
did not proceed following delays in the establishment of projects in Southern Africa with parties such as
ArcelorMittal, TATA Steel and others. Wasabi retains approximately 23% of AAP Carbon and will not be
providing any funds to it. AAP remains active in Southern Africa and may provide value to the Group in the
future.
The Deed of Company Arrangement

As outlined in the Notice of the Meeting, the DOCA proposes that:

the existing Shares will be consolidated such that creditors will hold 90% of the share capital of the
Company subsequent to implementation of the debt to equity swaps required under the DOCA, with
every 765 Shares in issue being consolidated into 1 Share;
the majority of the creditors of the Company will convert each $1.00 of debt owed to them into 2 Shares;

each new Share to be issued to a creditor cannot be sold, transferred or assigned until the earlier of:

six months from the DOCA Commencement Date or

30 days after the closing of the Future Rights Issue (described below);

Salida Accelerator Funds S.a.r.l. will remain a secured creditor for half of its debt, and accept Shares for
the other half and

Minor creditors (those whose debt is less than Au$2,000 and which total approximately $13,000) will
receive a distribution anticipated to be 100 cents in the dollar instead of Shares from an amount of
Au$475,0001 to be made available to the Administrator by new lenders.

The arrangement with creditors cannot proceed unless Shareholders vote in favour of the Resolutions
which relate to the debt restructure and included in the Notice of Meeting posted to shareholders today.
Unfortunately, the only alternative to the implementation of the DOCA is a liquidation of the Company.
The Administrators estimate that Shareholders would receive nothing on a liquidation.

The amount of Au$475,000 to be made available to the Administrator and minor creditors is included in the
larger some of Au$1,000,000 to be provided by new lenders and is not an additional amount being lent to
the Company.

Page99of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Share Consolidation and Issue of New Shares to Creditors

If Shareholders approve the share consolidation, the number of Shares in issue will reduce from
3,718,761,160 to 4,861,126. Any fractional entitlements will be rounded up. If the share issues proposed
are approved by Shareholders, the total number of shares issued will be 43,817,988 and accordingly, the
number of Shares in issue will increase from 4,861,126 to a maximum of 48,679,114.

The maximum number of new Shares to be issued is also subject to the receipt and adjudication of final
proofs of debt from creditors and also includes the maximum number of Shares, being 11,259,094, which
may be issued to satisfy any call on the guarantees outstanding with regard to China Shiny.
If all outstanding debts are converted to equity, the new Shareholders will hold in aggregate 90% of the
issued capital of the Company. Subject to shareholder approval, if the Company undertakes a placing in
addition to the debt to equity swap, up to a further 5,000,000 ordinary shares and 5,000,000 options could
be issued. On a fully diluted basis, there would therefore be up to 58,679,114 ordinary shares on issue.
All previously issued options in the Company have expired.

Admission of Shares to trading on AIM
Subject to approval of the DOCA, the revised share capital of the Company will be 37,420,020 Ordinary
Shares (the ‘Revised Share Capital’). Application for admission of the Revised Share Capital to trading on
AIM will be made and admission is expected to take place on 16 May 2014, however trading in the
Revised Share Capital is not expected to commence until there is clarity of the Company’s financial
position and the interim results for the period ended 31 December 2013 have been announced.

The figure of 37,420,020 does not include the 11,259,094 Ordinary Shares which may be issued if the
contingent liability owed to China Shiny Holdings Limited and the guarantors is crystallised.

Director Loan
It was announced on 27 February 2014 that John Byrne, a director of the Company intended to participate
in the lending syndicate that provides the Au$750,000 of initial funding to the Company. This initial
funding is to be used to fund the Company whilst it goes through the DOCA and fundraising processes.
It has been determined that a revised and total amount of Au$1,000,000 will be lent to the Company
however Mr John Byrne will not be participating in the lending syndicate. The Loan is a secured loan, with
interest at 8% per annum and will convert into New Shares in the Company at the same price and on the
same terms as a proposed fundraising by the Company in the near future.

Interim Accounts
In accordance with a Class Order, and as announced on 14 January 2014, if required, the Company is
given until 30 June 2014 to report to members and lodge its report for the half year ended December
2013, being six months after the date of the appointment of administrators. The Company was, however,
required, pursuant to Rule 19 of the AIM Rules for Companies to issue its interim results by 31 March
2014.
As the Company was not able to meet this AIM reporting requirement it therefore will remain suspended
until its interim results have been published and until the long term financing of the Company, which is
expected to be achieved by the Rights Issue, has been secured.

Contact:
Wasabi Energy Limited

John Byrne Executive Chairman Tel: +61 (0)3 9236 2800

Cenkos Securities

Beth McKiernan Neil McDonald Tel: +44 (0) 131 220 6939

[Editorial queries for this story should be sent to newswire@enpublishing.co.uk]

CO rundho : Wasabi Energy Ltd
IN
NS

i82 : Insurance | i832 : Insurance Brokering | ifinal : Financial Services
npress : Press Releases | ncat : Content Types

Page100of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB Electronic News Publishing Ltd.
AN Document ENPNEW0020140422ea4m00001

Page101of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.