CHINESE BUYERS LIFT THE STAKES

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
CHINESE BUYERS LIFT THE STAKES

JOHN DAGGE
270 words
17 September 2014
Herald-Sun
HERSUN
HeraldSun
29
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

DEALS THE value of Chinese takeover deals in Australia has surged since the start of the year as
domestic mining projects continue to lure buyers.
New research shows the value of merger and acquisition activity carried out by Chinese investors
soared 42 per cent to $2.4 billion in the six months to June, compared with the previous six
months.

The resources sector accounted for 88 per cent of the value of the deals, according to a report by
accountancy heavyweight PricewaterhouseCoopers.
But it was dominated by Chinese investors moving to increase existing shareholdings in miners.
PwC Deals Asia leader Andrew Parker said it was too soon to suggest Chinese investment in
Australian mining assets had bounced back after a flat two years.

“The fact these deals are strategic moves by existing shareholders — combined with easing
commodity prices and a persistently high Australian dollar — argues against calling any general
turnaround in Chinese interest in resource sector investment,” Mr Parker said.
Guangdong Rising Assets Management’s proposed takeover of Brisbane-based Laos copper and
gold producer PanAust is at the top of the table of major deals, at $1.06 billion.
Mr Parker said that beyond resources, Chinese buyers were seeking value in the agriculture, health
and consumer sectors.
On Monday, two Chinese investment groups established a $3 billion fund to invest in Australian
agriculture.

john.dagge@news.com.au
GREAT WALL OF MONEY China still digging deep for Aussie assets THE MAJOR DEALS
PanAust $1.06bn Aquila Resources $1.04bn WestSide $164m Park Hyatt Melbourne (pictured)
$114mSix months to June 2014

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document HERSUN0020140916ea9h0005r

Page171of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.