INSIDE STORY visits Southern Highlands | TITLE DEEDS Celebrity chef takes a shine to Malabar

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Domain
INSIDE STORY visits Southern Highlands | TITLE DEEDS Celebrity chef takes a shine to Malabar

LUCY MACKEN
1,293 words
17 May 2014
Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
6
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Former North Bondi boy Pete Evans and his fiancee have snapped up several properties in the suburb.

An anonymous tip in late March that celebrity chef Pete Evans had bought a three-bedroom house in
Malabar wasn't enough to make a Title Deeds story, as intriguing as such news is given his recently
publicised financial woes.

But now the $1.27 million settlement on an unassuming brick house on Austral Street confirms the
purchase by the co-founder of Hugos and judge on My Kitchen Rules, presumably at its March 26
auction.
The property, which was sold by Andrew Malouf, of Ray White Maroubra, is majority-owned by Evans'
fiancee, Nicola Robinson, better known in New Zealand as Nicola Watson, the swimsuit model and
ex-wife of Warriors league club owner Eric Watson.
This isn't Evans' only recent Malabar purchase. He and Robinson also bought an imposing
four-bedroom house on the same street for $1.44 million last July.
Evans isn't totally turning his back on his former life in North Bondi. The Ramsgate Avenue apartment
he bought in 2009 for $880,000 with his brother, David, also a co-founder of Hugos, was transferred
into Pete's name last December with an exchange of $525,000.

Crossways at crossroads
The Crossways, in Centennial Park, arguably Sydney's finest piece of parkside real estate, isn't
officially launched until August, but there's a sneak peek for those with the $11 million to $13 million to
secure the historic mansion.

The Federation Arts and Crafts residence was built in 1908 for surgeon Dr Gordon Craig and designed
by then renowned architect firm Waterhouse and Lake.
The 1814-square-metre property was renovated extensively in the 1990s by architect Espie Dods for
then owners, former McGuigan Wines director James Smiley and his wife, Jane, who set a suburb
record in 2006 when they sold it for $10 million. Now owned by the Zavattaro family, the
seven-bedroom residence, has impressive drawing, reception and billiard rooms, loggia, library,
self-contained quarters, gym, master suite and a swimming pool, all surrounded by a Paul Bangay
garden. Bill Malouf, of LJ Hooker Double Bay, has the listing.

Surf in sight

The long-held Palm Beach retreat of Australia's former consul-general in New York, Phillip Scanlan,
AM, and his wife, Julie, is for sale for more than $5 million.

Page243of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The Florida Road property has been in the family since 1993, when the 1390-square-metre site was
bought for $610,000. Architect Geoff Watson was then commissioned to design the five-bedroom,
four-bathroom beach house with an open-plan living area and terrace overlooking the surf.

The Melbourne-based former chief executive of Coca-Cola Amatil has listed the three-level getaway
with LJ Hooker Palm Beach's David Edwards.

Movement on the hill
Meanwhile, up on Palm Beach's Pill Hill (so named for its many medico weekenders), Hong
Kong-based finance executive Damian Rowe and his wife, Larisa, are the latest buyers at a rumoured
$1.7 million-plus.

Marketed facetiously as the Pink Palace, records show it has been in the Grundy family since 1965,
and was sold by sisters Rosemary and Christobel, the latter of whom is married to former soldier
Justice Clifton Hoeben, AM. It was sold by Sotheby's International's newest affiliate, Michael King.

Setting sail

Yachtie Colin Woods and his wife, Gladys, have put their contemporary Yowie Bay deep waterfront
home up for a May 24 auction with $4 million-plus hopes.
Woods, who owns the Sydney to Hobart challenger Pretty Fly III and civil infrastructure company
Haslin Constructions, had the five-bedroom steel and glass home built in 2009. Set on 3200 square
metres with a jetty, boatshed and a swimming pool, it is listed with McGrath's Bernadette Berlyn.

Reid takes another punt
FOR SALE: $10m+

The Bellevue Hill residence of former hedge-fund whiz Jeremy Reid and his wife, Tammi, has been
relisted for $10 million-plus.
Reid bought the 2100-square-metre property in 2005 for $9.25 million when he was 28. After suffering
big losses in the global financial crisis and a two-year ban last July on giving financial services advice,
Reid has turned his hand to the digital commerce arena to launch brand sampling company PINCHme.

The six-bedroom residence with a championship tennis court, pool, guest quarters and harbour views
goes to auction on Thursday, June 12, through Ashley Bierman and Elliott Placks, of Ray White Double
Bay.

Gorgeous Georgian
FOR SALE: $7.5m+

Another Bellevue Hill residence up for grabs is Warncliffe, the home of New York-born management
consultant Philip Stern and his wife, Leslie.

The Georgian facade looks over a front lawn that was a tennis court in the 1950s when the owner was
Edwin Hamilton. It comes with four bedrooms, formal and informal living areas, a music room and a
swimming pool. Over the back fence is the home of Max Brenner franchise rights holders Tom and Lilly
Haikin, which they bought in 2010 for $23 million.
Stern, who is on the Cranbrook School council, bought the 1239-square-metre property in 1999 for
$2.675 million. It is listed with Sotheby's Michael Pallier for more than $7.5 million.

Last Boheme offering
FOR SALE: $10 million

The penthouse of the Boheme Bondi Beach development has hit the market with a $10 million price
tag. The three-bedder had been held off the market, prompting speculation that the Toga Group's
managing director, Allan Vidor, and his wife, Sharon, would take it as their own, but the listing clearly
puts the kibosh on such talk. The Vidors are Watsons Bay locals, having paid $24.9 million for their
double-block waterfront home in 2008. The 627-square-metre Bondi spread with a north-east aspect
and private swimming pool is the last of the offerings in the Bates Smart-designed development, with
the 42 other apartments now all sold. CBRE's Ben Stewart is taking inquiries.

Shh!

Page244of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Guess which ANZ senior executive is the buyer of a glamorous, surfside residence for more than $6
million?

Who is the prominent business chief who has snapped up new digs in the CBD? Expect to see their
Walsh Bay pad hit the market shortly.

INSIDE STORY visits Southern Highlands
FOR SALE: $4.25m

Just as a few Southern Highlands landmarks find new owners, there's a new listing on offer for the
well-heeled farmer.

Former managing director of Hambros Australia Ed Blackadder and his wife, Elaine, are opting out of
the farming business in favour of a more gentrified life in Burradoo where they have bought the
beautiful property Patchway. Drew Lindsay's John Renouf wouldn't comment on the sale, but another
source says the elegant residence sold for $4,175,000, prompting the Blackadders to list their 56.6
hectare Wallaroy Angus

stud in Exeter.

Blackadder turned to cattle farming in 1995 after retiring from Hambros, ending his time as one of
Australia's longest serving chiefs of a financial institution.

Boasting 12 paddocks, eight dams, town water and a stylish four-bedroom residence, it is now listed
with a $4.25 million guide by Renouf.
This week also saw the pre-auction sale of Bowral's Chateau Blondel, the opulently finished,
French-inspired home of antique dealers Gary and Maryanne Nolan.
It was sold by agents Bill Bridges and Ian Rayner, neither of whom would comment on the sale,
leaving it to a local source to reveal the sale price of more than $4 million.

IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

irreal : Residential Real Estate | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ireest :
Real Estate
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcele : Celebrity News/Gossip | gcat : Political/General News | glife :
Living/Lifestyle
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020140516ea5h00090

Page245of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.