ACCC set to block AGL Hunter Valley spree

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Finance
ACCC set to block AGL Hunter Valley spree

MATT CHAMBERS, ENERGY
612 words
7 February 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
1 - All-round Country
17
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

THE competition watchdog has flagged that it will block AGL Energy from buying big Hunter Valley
coal-power stations, substantially lessening the competitive tension in the NSW government's
proposed $2 billion selloff.

The three bidders for the state government's Macquarie Generation assets now consist of one that
looks like being at least hindered by the Australian Competition & Consumer Commission, one (ERM
Power) where concerns have been raised about its ability to finance the deal, and an outsider,
Japan's Marubeni.

The ACCC said it had not made a final decision, but that an AGL acquisition would probably result
in a substantial lessening of retail power supply competition and could do the same in the wholesale
markets in NSW, Victoria and South Australia.
``The proposed acquisition would remove the largest source of independent generation capacity in
NSW,'' Mr Sims said.

``We are considering whether this could raise barriers to entry and expansion for electricity retailers
in NSW, with the potential result that end users of electricity in NSW may not obtain the benefits of
strong retail electricity competition.''
Should the acquisition go through, AGL, Origin Energy and EnergyAustralia (owned by Hong
Kong's CLP Holdings) would control about three-quarters of NSW power output and more than 85
per cent of the retail market in the state.

``Our concern is that second tier and new entrant retailers might find it difficult to gain the hedge
contracts they need to compete aggressively in the NSW retail market,'' Mr Sims said.

The transaction would make AGL the biggest generator in NSW, Victoria and South Australia, which
the ACCC said could give AGL the ability and incentive to influence wholesale electricity prices in
those states.

Mr Sims said if MacGen remained in government hands or went to one of the other two bidders,
there was likely to be greater scope for new entry and expansion in NSW power retailing.

The statement of issues released by the ACCC yesterday, a day after it was targeting making a
decision, came with a call for market submissions and a month-long decision delay to March 4.

AGL and the state government offered little comment on the ACCC's preliminary decision, and ERM
Power declined to comment at all.

``AGL is reviewing the statement of issues with a view to making further submissions'' was all the
company would offer.

Page30of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NSW Treasurer Mike Baird said evaluation of the three bids would proceed and indicated the
timetable was not threatened by the decision.

``This is expected to take some time as is usual for a transaction such as this,'' a spokeswoman for
Mr Baird said.
``The sale process has always recognised bidders would need to

Continued on Page 18

Continued from Page 17

receive regulatory approval, such as from the ACCC or Foreign Investment Review Board.

``This is a normal part of the process.''

ERM, whose bid was cleared by the ACCC in January, declined to comment on the ACCC decision
or whether it was confident of gaining finance through debt and equity if it was successful.
ERM's shares slipped 8c to $2.40 yesterday, giving the company a market value of just under $600
million. AGL shares fell 13c to $14.79.

The MacGen business has a book value of $2bn after being written down by $1bn in 2011-12
because of the carbon tax.
The MacGen assets are two coal-fired power stations in the Hunter Valley that have a combined
capacity of 4600MW or about 25 per cent of NSW's installed capacity, and produce 40 per cent of
the state's power.

agkega : AGL Energy Limited | macgen : Macquarie Generation | auccc : Australian Competition and
Consumer Commission
i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i16101 : Electric Power Generation | ieutil : Electric Utilities | iutil :
Utilities
c34 : Anti-Competition Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140206ea2700025

CO

IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page31of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.