Chinese eye Down Under for wine

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Chinese eye Down Under for wine

690 words
30 January 2014
20:48
Channel NewsAsia
CNEWAS
English
(c) 2014 MediaCorp News Pte Ltd. All Rights Reserved

HUNTER VALLEY: It is harvest time in Australian vineyards and grape pickers are working round the
clock to take advantage of favourable weather conditions.
In recent days, much of Australia's premium wine is sold to China -- Australia's second largest export
market in terms of value -- and other parts of Asia.

China's growing love affair with wine has also prompted many of its countrymen to put their money
where their mouth is, with more and more Australian vineyards being purchased by Chinese business
interests.
Hunter Valley is one of Australia's most recognised wine regions. Grapes have been picked in the region
since the early part of the 19th century. Although it is only responsible for about three per cent of the
country's total production, the quality of the wine means it punches well above its weight.

Chris Tyrrell is a fifth generation winemaker. His great, great grandfather settled in the Hunter Valley in
1858 and the company, Tyrrell’s Wines, is now one of the Hunter's best- known.
He said: "I think the lucky thing about the Hunter is we are not producing those hugely commercial
low-end price wines. We are more at the premium end here so we have always had a pretty strong
footing in the premium side of the market."

It is the height of the grape picking season in the Hunter Valley and the race is on to complete the harvest
before any deterioration in the weather, as even a few showers can have an impact on the final quality of
the wine.

Harvest time is always a worry. In the past few years, bad weather has damaged the grapes in the final
weeks of production, so viticulturists are keeping their fingers crossed there would not be any heavy rain.

“Because of our growing season, we haven't had the disease pressure we often have so the grapes are
of really good quality. The sugar levels are great and they are now starting to get the flavor that
winemakers really look for," said viticulturist Ken Bray.
Roughly 25 per cent of Hunter Valley wine is exported, mainly to China and other parts of Asia.
In the past decade, wine sales to China have soared. In terms of value, Australia is now the second
largest exporter of wine to China after France with annual sales worth more than $250 million.
China's growing love for the grape has also encouraged many Chinese to buy their own vineyards in
Australia. In the Hunter, nearly 20 vineyards are now under Chinese ownership. Honeytree estate at
nearby Polkobin was recently sold to a Chinese company for $1.7 million dollars.

Many also see vineyards as a good long-term investment.
"I think everyone has always viewed the Chinese as very astute business people and I think they (the
Chinese) are seeing the appeal of wine to the Chinese palate,” said Gus Maher from the Hunter Valley
Wine Association.

Page47of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“Also the view is as a nice plaything to have. If they've got money, they also want to be involved in the
wine industry."
In truth, there are other motivations as some Chinese are looking to buy vineyards for immigration
purposes, with particularly strong interest from investor visa applicants.
Cain Becket, a real estate agent said: "There are a number of different reasons why they are interested…
-- predominantly the Chinese fascination with wine and the growing wine market in China -- but also
because of the associated residency and visa options that are associated with a property like this."

The lower value of the Australian dollar is also boosting interest. It makes vineyards cheaper for overseas
buyers and also makes wine export sales more profitable. If the weather holds, the Hunter harvest looks
like producing a bumper crop.

Mr Tyrrell said: "It's shaping up to be one of the best in many, many years. I know that sounds a little
cliched but we have had a few difficult years with weather and this year is really looking for both reds and
whites to be an excellent vintage."  - CNA/ec

NS
RE

c21 : Output/Production | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Business

IPD
PUB MCN International Pte Ltd.
AN

Document CNEWAS0020140130ea1u000jh

Page48of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.