Relief on pay delay

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Relief on pay delay

BY SIMONE SMITH
770 words
2 July 2014
Weekly Times
HERWEK
WeeklyTimes
1
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

UNITED Dairy Power has promised to pay suppliers millions of dollars owed to them.
The independent milk processor finally admitted yesterday it hadn’t paid some dairy farmers for milk
supplied in May.

News that some farmers were owed more than $300,000 shocked an industry where the monthly
milk cheque is regarded as sacred.

After a confusing week for UDP and its suppliers, UDP chief operating officer Darryl Cardona
confirmed the non-payment or part-payments to suppliers was a “short-term cashflow issue”.

“It will be rectified by the end of this week,” he said yesterday. “It stems from Australia and funds that
have had to be injected from China to rectify the situation.” Mr Cardona said only eight farmers were
owed money and denied these were the company’s largest suppliers.

The affected farmers are in Victoria and South Australia. The Weekly Times understands at least 10
farmers are owed money.

Confusion peaked at the weekend following a letter from a UDP director apologising to suppliers for
the non-payment, which was followed by an email from Mr Cardona criticising “rumours and
innuendo” after the story was broken by weeklytimes now.com.au on Sunday.
Mr Cardona said this was to “quash” several rumours about UDP from opposition dairy companies.

Mr Cardona also admitted UDP expected to lose “some supply”. He stressed farmers would be paid
on July 17 for milk supplied in June. Mr Cardona also confirmed UDP chief executive Mark Smith
resigned as a company director in May.
UDP’s non-payment is believed to have triggered a flurry of inquiry to other dairy companies from
some of UDP’s 150 suppliers.

One farmer told The Weekly Times he had been paid about 10 per cent of what he was owed for last
month’s milk. He was also still awaiting payment for much of his previous month’s milk, which
totalled several hundred thousand dollars.

He said UDP had not contacted him to tell him why the payment had not arrived. The farmer said he
planned to switch suppliers this week.

He said there were “easily more than 10” suppliers in Victoria that had not been paid.

● Continued, Page 2 ● Editorial, Page 16 From Page 1 Another supplier owed more than $130,000
declared "we are not UDP bankers". This supplier feared he would not receive the money and was
"really worried we won't get paid for our June milk".

Page83of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Non-payment for June milk and the remainder of May would mean they would be owed up to
$500,000.

UDP director Johnny Chan's letter last Friday to some suppliers who were not paid said "I wish you
could give us some patience for the funds".

"We believe the funds should be ready early next week.

"Once the funds is (sic) available, we will remit to UDP for settlement of the outstanding due to you
and the payment of the 2 per cent penalty.

"We really appreciate your full support and understanding at this critical moment."

The Weekly Times understands some farmers who have been paid since the original payment date
have received the 2 per cent penalty.

South Australian Dairyfarmers' Association president David Basham said he knew of four farms who
hadn't received full payment.

He said they had "received part payments at different times over the last week or so".

"All we can do is support our members and those in the situation and help them seek assistance from
professionals in this space, direct them to the right legal or financial avenues and those sorts of
things," he said.
"SADA has spoken to all major milk companies in South Australia and they are all prepared to take
on new supply at short notice if need be, but hopefully things can be settled and we won't need to
have that happen."

United Dairyfarmers' of Victoria president Tyran Jones said he wasn't aware of any members directly
affected.

"There's not a lot we can do, if the rumours turn out to be true. We can make sure there's lots of
competition for milk," he said.
UDP was purchased by Hong Kong private investor William Hui in February. During the sale
process the previous owner, and UDP founder, Tony Esposito told The Weekly Times suppliers
would receive a farmgate price bonus linked to the sale.
At the time he said this bonus would be 80c/kg butterfat and $1.20/kg protein on milk supplied during
October and November last year.Mr Cardona confirmed farmers had not received this payment.

IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

i010010502 : Dairy Cattle Farming | i0 : Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | i0100105 : Cattle Farming |
ilsfarm : Livestock Farming
npag : Page-One Stories | ncat : Content Types
austr : Australia | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document HERWEK0020140701ea720000x

Page84of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.