Goodman Fielder yields to raiders

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Goodman Fielder yields to raiders

RICHARD GLUYAS, TAKEOVERS
488 words
17 May 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
23
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

GOODMAN Fielder is set to fall to its Asian raiders, with the board of the nation’s biggest baker
unanimously backing a 71c-a-share, $1.39 billion offer from Singapore oils trader Wilmar
International and Hong Kong investment house First Pacific.
After an all-day board meeting, news that the Goodman directors had recommended the proposed
scheme of arrangement emerged about three hours ahead of an 8pm deadline set by the bidders.

Sources said that Wilmar and First Pacific representatives had booked flights, packed their bags and
were ready to leave the country if the deadline passed without a recommendation.

The successful offer includes a 1c-a-share dividend for the June year, and is sweetened from the
bidders’ 65c-a-share opening gambit on April 28.

Goodman chairman Steve Gregg said the improved terms maximised value for shareholders.

“In the absence of a superior proposal and subject to various other conditions, we believe this revised
proposal is consistent with that objective (of maximising value),” Mr Gregg said.
“We believe this revised proposal also demonstrates the strength of our underlying business and
brands, but also the opportunity to leverage these assets to grow the business across the Asian
region.” The likely fall of Goodman comes amid a spate of industry takeovers, as global food groups
seek scale to feed the emerging Asian middle class.
The most recent example was Canadian dairy giant Saputo’s $500m-plus takeover of Warrnambool
Cheese & Butter.

Goodman’s vulnerability was heightened by an April 2 earnings downgrade, its fourth since 2011, with
the company flagging further possible asset writedowns after $700 million worth over the past three
years.

Wilmar and First Pacific cranked up the pressure on Thursday, lifting their offer to 71c, including the
1c dividend, and demanding unanimous board support by 8pm yesterday.

This was conditional on the parties entering into a scheme implementation agreement, receipt of a
supportive independent expert’s report, and no other suitor emerging.

The improved terms equate to a 33 per cent premium to Goodman’s closing price of 52.5c on April 23.

The bidders revealed that they had entered into agreements with Goodman’s two largest
shareholders, Perpetual and Ellerston Capital, to acquire a 4.8 per cent stake, taking their combined
holding to 14.9 per cent.

The agreements also enabled the bidders to purchase an additional 5 per cent of Goodman from the
same shareholders, subject to Foreign Investment Review Board approval. The bidders said they

Page251of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.needed to conduct four weeks of due diligence in order to progress to a binding offer. If the deal gets
through foreign investment approval in Australia and New Zealand, the scheme meeting is likely to
take place in three to four months.
The required 75 per cent vote of support from shareholders is considered likely, given the board’s
unanimous support.

john durie P31

CO
IN
NS
RE
PUB
AN

fdgl : Goodman Fielder Ltd
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp : Consumer Goods
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140516ea5h000ft

Page252of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.