APA may play trump card on Envestra

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Market Wrap - Street Talk
APA may play trump card on Envestra

Edited by Sarah Thompson, Anthony Macdonald and Gretchen Friemann
376 words
12 March 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
16
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Gas pipeline giant, APA Group, looks set to hold out against any further pressure to sweeten its
$2.1 billion deal for Envestra.
But the determination to stand firm may result in the scheme of arrangement offer ditched in favour of
a more aggressive on-market takeover.

The prospect of a on-market takeover offer has heightened expectations Hong Kong-based CKI will
exit the gas distributor sooner rather than later. Last week a number of investors questioned whether
APA would again raise its bid in an effort to win over Asia's richest man, Li Ka-shing, who controls an
18 per cent stake in Envestra via his infrastructure company, Cheung Kong Infrastructure Holdings
(CKI). There is no legal impediment to APA ditching the scheme of arrangement but the pursuit of such
a strategy would pin CKI between a rock and a hard place, given the lack of appetite among investors
for minority stakes.
Directors of the Hong Kong group have already opposed the merger but are yet to reveal their voting
intentions.
CKI's majority stake in Envestra means it could defeat the scheme of arrangement. But since APA can
swiftly move to an on-market takeover, the most logical outcome may be a sell-down by CKI to circling
hedge funds.

The gas pipeline owner already owns one-third of Envestra, and most of its independent directors have
endorsed the merger.

Independent expert Grant Samuel also deemed the deal "fair and reasonable". Elsewhere another
well-flagged block trade finally materialised on Tuesday after goldminer Newmont Mining offloaded a
5.4 per cent stake in uranium producer Paladin Energy.
A s revealed on Street Talk online, UBS offered 52 million shares at 52.5¢ apiece. Paladin shares last
traded at 55.5¢. This column previously highlighted the likelihood of Newmont's exit given the financing
pressure it faces on a handful of projects. After a deep descent, Paladin looks set for a brighter future.
January's sale of a stake in the Namibian uranium mine, Langer Heinrich, to a Chinese nuclear firm
cheered investors and the shares have since risen some 25 per cent.

CO

IN

NS
RE

austpi : APA Group | chkinf : Cheung Kong Infrastructure Holdings Ltd | envest : Envestra Ltd. | hutwam
: Hutchison Whampoa Limited
i1300006 : Pipeline Transportation | i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i502 : Heavy
Construction | i5020043 : Pipeline Laying | iconst : Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

Page12of270©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB
AN

Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140311ea3c0004b

Page13of270©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.