China : SOLAR boost from Chinese partner secured by RayGen

17 September 2014

HD
WC 390 words
PD
SN Mena Report
SC MENREP
LA
CY
LP

China : SOLAR boost from Chinese partner secured by RayGen

English
© 2014 Al Bawaba (Albawaba.com). Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com Company

The company stated that Australian solar-tech firm RayGen Resources has decided to an accelerated
project timeline with China Intense Solar for delivery of its concentrated solar photovoltaic (CSPV)
system, culminating in a 10 megawatt (MW) commercial scale project ahead of schedule, by August 2016.
RagGen said that the revised project timeline will commence with a 0.2 MW pilot by March 2015 followed
by a 1 MW demonstration. The commercial-scale project capable of powering thousands of Chinese
homes will be delivered by 2016. It carries forward key project milestones initially laid out over a 5year
period as part of a $60 million investment and distribution agreement signed in April this year. That deal
delivered a $2 million equity investment in RayGen, a Melbourne-based firm, and saw the Chinese firm
purchase Raygen's semiconductor and computerised control components for further assembly in China
with locally made parts, and exclusive distribution there.

TD

RayGen CEO Bob Cart said that the accelerated timetable highlighted the Chinese company s faith in
RayGen. Mr Cart said, We have a partner in China Intense Solar which recognises our innovation
capability and our ability to deliver utility-scale clean power into the world s most populous country . They
are keen to make more significant inroads in addressing China s air quality issues and they see RayGen's
world-leading CSPV system playing a key role towards this goal . Raygen stated that its CSPV uses
computer?controlled mirrors to direct a concentrated beam of sunlight onto ultra?efficient solar
semiconductor devices, originally designed to power spacecraft. It says the technology is twice as efficient
as traditional PV, and enables "industrial?capacity solar energy delivered off the grid at on?the?grid
prices" for projects such as mining. Mr Cart said that the agreement with China Intense Solar could
multiply in coming years. He said, We ve only scratched the surface, with the potential for $1 billion in
Australian CSPV exports by the end of the decade . RayGen is a finalist in the 2014 Australian
Technologies Competition supported by the Department of Industry. The company was part of the
Commonwealth Government s trade mission to China in April this year. It has received $2.75 million in
Federal (ARENA) and Victorian government grants since its inception in 2010.

IN
NS
RE

ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
gcivds : Civil Disruption | gcat : Political/General News | gcns : National Security | grisk : Risk News
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC
Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

IPD Banking And Finance
PUB Al Bawaba.com, Inc.
AN

Document MENREP0020140917ea9h005j8

Page109of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.