Pitt Street hotel sites fit the bill

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Pitt Street hotel sites fit the bill

Samantha Hutchinson
487 words
23 April 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
38
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Chinese developer Greenland could face stiff competition when it opens a boutique hotel on its
Water Board site in Sydney. Local developer Ninety Four Feet has lodged plans for a 136-room,
four to five-star hotel directly opposite.
The Melbourne-based group has secured a 518.7-square-metre site at 302 Pitt Street, known as
Druids House, where it plans to build a 16-storey hotel costing more than $22 million.

The project is the next instalment in revitalising an area that until Greenland's $100 million
purchase of the ageing government site, was widely regarded as the forgotten corner of Sydney's
central business district.
A family-run company named by basketball-enthusiast brothers Dean and Jonty Rzechta after the
length of a basketball court, Ninety Four Feet has developed residential projects in Melbourne,
including the 700-apartment Hoffman Brickworks in Brunswick, costing more than $200 million.
The Pitt Street purchase marks the group's first foray into the Sydney market. They paid more than
$10 million to private property investor Bill Gertos in December 2013 for the six-storey commercial
building.
Ninety Four Feet originally planned to use the site for residential development, but soon realised a
hotel would be its best and highest use.
"We got to Sydney and realised the interest in the hotel and hospitality space is second to none,"
chief executive Dean Rzechta told The Australian Financial Review.
Some hotel operators are already circling the site.

Local chains including Quest and Punthill have reportedly shown interest, while a number of
international groups including Hyatt, Starwood, Jumeirah and Hilton have apparently also asked for
more information.
"Nowhere else are you seeing such a trend to convert office buildings into residential . . . there's just
this huge shortage of stock in the hotel sector," Mr Rzechta said.

He declined to comment on the reports, only to say talks were continuing with several operators.

Many developers may be put off by the idea of competition being built across the road, but Mr
Rzechta believes such close proximity to Greenland's 180-room boutique hotel can only be a good
thing.

"Greenland being there definitely made it more attractive," he said.

Page35of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."A development like that is only going to help regenerate what has been a secondary market in Pitt
Street."
The group is already midway through planning its second development in Sydney, at a site in
O'Brien Street at Bondi Beach where it plans to build about 20 apartments.
The group's apartment pipeline now stands at more than 1000 around the country, in suburbs
including Box Hill, Ringwood and South Melbourne.
Druids House was built in 1909 as a factory for the Welsbach Light Company. In 1927, the building
was altered for use by the United Ancient Order of Druids, and again in 1982. It has been vacant
since before December 2013.

IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

i5010022 : Residential Building Construction | i6651 : Hotels (except Casino)/Motels | ireest : Real
Estate | i501 : Building Construction | i66 : Hotels/Restaurants | i665 : Lodgings | iconst :
Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ilea : Leisure/Arts/Hospitality | itourm : Tourism
gluxtr : Luxury Travel | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | gtour : Travel
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140422ea4n00023

Page36of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.