Short-seller king buys Australian ore

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Short-seller king buys Australian ore

Jonathan Shapiro
657 words
17 May 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
40
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

The world's largest short-seller, Jim Chanos, believes coal and iron ore miners in Australia with a lot
of debt may be vulnerable to a slowdown in China's real estate.
New York-based Mr Chanos, of $4 billion fund manager Kynikos Associates, has also invested in
mining giants BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto and told Australian property owners to "hit the bid" (that is,
quickly accept offers) from Chinese buyers before capital flight is halted.

Mr Chanos, one of the most prominent China bears, told AFR Weekend there was a "clear
downturn" in the Chinese real estate market that would affect Australia as demand for iron ore fell.
"The problem that iron-ore centric miners are going to have is new capacity coming on as demand is
falling," Mr Chanos said on the sidelines of the SALT hedge fund conference in Las Vegas. "But we
are long on BHP and Rio because we think they are reasonably managed. They saw this coming and
pulled back a couple of years ago.

"Whereas you have companies like Fortescue Metals Group and Vale that are full speed ahead."
Mr Chanos is also bearish on coal companies. He says he has identified some Australian coal
miners with high debt levels that are vulnerable to reduced global demand "but none we are
[prepared to be seen] talking about".
"Even with continued demand in India and China, the writing is on the wall that everyone is trying to
reduce emissions," he said.
"Solar is starting to become economical on the margin. It's a small part of power generation, but it's
growing and with natural gas as another alternative, coal is constantly going to get squeezed.
"You see that with thermal and coal prices. Both have continued to drop and there are a lot of
leveraged coal players that have not adjusted to that reality."
Mr Chanos has long held bearish views on China and has targeted ASX-listed iron ore miner
Fortescue Metals in the past.'The question for Australia is how much flight capital is coming out'
He is now warning that a Chinese government crackdown on corruption will hurt auctioneering
house Sotheby's and Asian gaming stocks that have benefited as Macau casinos have been used to
pay bribes to corrupt officials and circumvent capital controls.
China's premier, Li Keqiang, has led the crackdown that last week targeted the use of "Union Pay"
credit cards to facilitate illegal transfers of money out of the mainland into Macau.

Mr Chanos believes it was an important event. He said the corruption crusade would have
consequences for Australia, which has become an investment destination for wealthy Chinese.

Page239of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."The question for Australia is how much flight capital is coming out of China and how much will
continue to come out," said Mr Chanos.
He said Australian property owners and developers that were hoping to sell to Chinese investors
should "hit the bid" and sell as quickly as they could. "Those counting on selling to the Chinese
people two or three years from now – you might want to rethink that," he said.
Mr Chanos is best known for his short position on United States energy firm Enron, which fell from
being one of the world's most admired companies to the one of corporate America's worst
bankruptcies in 2002.

Mr Chanos has targeted other Australian companies in the past. He took a short position Macquarie
Bank in 2007, prompting an extensive response from the Sydney-headquartered bank.

His fund, Kynikos Associates, is one of the largest short-selling funds in the world. But it has
struggled as sharemarkets have risen and it was reported that it had posted a negative 14 per cent
return last year.READ NEXT: Investors dump equities for bonds on global economy doubts How to
get around the debt levy Chinese princeling rebuilds Sydney icon

ambol : Fortescue Metals Group Ltd | bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | craaus : Rio Tinto Ltd | rtz : Rio Tinto
PLC | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140516ea5h0000t

CO

IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

Page240of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.