Cushman & Wakefield Releases Report on APAC Hospitality Investments

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Cushman & Wakefield Releases Report on APAC Hospitality Investments

546 words
26 August 2014
Travel & Leisure Close-Up
TRALEI
English
(c) 2014. Close-Up Media, Inc. All rights reserved.

Cushman & Wakefield, in their latest report on the hotel markets across 17 gateway cities and prime
destinations in Asia and Australia, reported that hospitality investment market in the Asia Pacific reached
a record high transaction volume ofUS$12.83 billion in 2013, the highest in the last 5 years and over 30
percent higher than 2012.

According to Cushman & Wakefield, there had been a substantial weight of capital invested in the core
markets with mainland China accounting for US$2.636 billion or 20.5 percent of the total investment
volume, Singapore the second largest market at US$2.634 billion, followed by Japan at US$2.610 billion
and Australia at US$2.271 billion. Hotel investments were also more widespread across the region in
2013, where emerging and non-core markets like Cambodia, Macau, Maldives saw some assets
changing hands.

Akshay Kulkarni, Regional Director of Cushman & Wakefield's Hospitality Services forSouth Asia and
Southeast Asia said: "Hospitality investment volume in 2013 more than doubled since 2008 and can be
attributed to the excess liquidity, the low borrowing costs and the region's favorable tourism growth and
outlook."
The cities included in the report are Singapore, Hong Kong, Tokyo, Bali, Seoul, Mumbai, National
Capital Region (India), Bangkok, Shanghai, Jakarta, Kuala Lumpur, Beijing, Ho Chi Minh City, Sydney,
Melbourne, Perth and Brisbane.
The company noted that, in the first half of 2014, total investment volume of hospitality assets
reachedUS$5.203 billion, which is 9.5 percent higher compared to the same period last year. While the
core markets of Japan, Singapore, mainland China and Australia are still the most traded ones and
constitute about 68.8 percent of the investment volume, other emerging markets such as Philippines,
Malaysia, Sri Lanka and Indonesia have experienced higher investment quantum compared to the same
period last year. For 2014, Cushman & Wakefield expects the hospitality investment market to moderate,
and likely to close atUS$9.0 to US$10.5 billion.

Kulkarni added, "We expect the balance of 2014 to equal or come close last year's level in terms of
transactional activity.Japan has already seen significant investment volume and will undoubtedly
improve further and lead the pack, due to strong corporate demand and greater investor optimism
arising from Abe's economic reforms. Lower hotel transaction volume is expected forSingapore this
year compared to last year, at least in the organized institutional side. However with the change in norms
on the shop houses those that have approved hotel licenses will see high guest demand.
Mainland China in the first half of this year has seen investments of over US$1.5 billion. This obviously
shows significant confidence in the markets and their potential, and also indicative of the fact that assets
may be trading at below par and there is an eventual upside. However given the current trading
performances in the key Chinese markets and also the relative slowdown of the economy the forecast in
terms of investments is that these volumes will taper.
Cushman & Wakefield is a privately-held commercial real estate services firm.

More information and complete details:

cushmanwakefield.com

Page391of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.((Comments on this story may be sent to newsdesk@closeupmedia.com))

CO
IN
NS
RE

PUB
AN

cuwa : Cushman & Wakefield Inc | gianec : Giovanni Agnelli and C SAPA | ifi : Exor SpA
i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ireest : Real Estate
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
china : China | austr : Australia | jap : Japan | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Close-Up Media, Inc.
Document TRALEI0020140826ea8q0001n

Page392of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.