Best investment no one’s heard of

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Best investment no one’s heard of

TONY RAGGATT Business Editor tony.raggatt@news.com.au
453 words
6 February 2014
Townsville Bulletin
TOWNBU
Townsville
29
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

TOWNSVILLE is like the tortoise in that Ancient Greek fable, slow and steady wins the race, according
to longtime Chinese investor Ming Kong Chan.

But it has a disadvantage in that few people, at least outside of Australia, know it exists.

“People don’t know about it,” Mr Chan said this week.

Mr Chan, who with his Townsville partners Richard Ferry and Colin Harkness controls investments
understood to be worth about $40 million here, has been in the city for meetings on his interests.

“Since my family’s initial investment in Townsville 32 years ago, our growth pattern has largely mirrored
the city’s growth trend; it’s been cautious but very solid,” Mr Chan said.

“The money our family has made as a result of its investments and developments in Townsville has
been totally reinvested in Townsville.” Mr Chan first came to Townsville in 1982 during a sales trip to
promote his factory’s line of camping gear. He liked what he saw, particularly the view from Castle Hill.
His company A.I.S. Investments proposed a cable car project along with a hotel and units, acquiring
land, including the former Panorama House restaurant on Castle Hill.
It endured about two years of opposition in the early 1990s from lobby group Friends of Castle Hill but
ultimately it was an obscure transport law requiring majority Australian involvement that prevented the
project proceeding.

Mr Chan decided to move on to other projects.

Lawyer Colin Harkness still believes the cable car would have been a great asset for Townsville and
doesn’t subscribe to the view that tourism has little or no place in the city.

“We will never know whether it would have been a profitable enterprise but I personally thought it
would,” Mr Harkness said.
A.I.S. Investments traded the Panorama House site for land at Cluden now being developed as an
industrial transport hub and warehouse precinct, while city land has been turned over to unit
developments. The company still holds CBD property such as office complex 22 Walker Street, which
is undergoing a $3.5 million refurbishment.

Mr Harkness said Mr Chan had been a good investor for Townsville. “I can’t think of one investment
he’s made that he sold (or held) without improving,” Mr Harkness said.

Mr Chan said his Townsville partners had made his investments “easy”. “The family’s actions through
selling investments in Victoria and the Gold Coast and investing those proceeds in Townsville are proof

Page89of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.of our confidence in Townsville,” Mr Chan said.“Its disadvantage is that to the greater world it is
virtually unknown.”

NS
RE
PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document TOWNBU0020140206ea260001p

Page90of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.