Better branding key for Asian wine markets

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

WestReg
Better branding key for Asian wine markets

Rueben Hale
600 words
1 May 2014
The Countryman
CTM
First
14
English
(c) 2014 West Australian Newspapers Limited.

A leading winemaker says the Australian wine industry needs to brand itself to make its mark in the
emerging Asian market.

Ferngrove managing director Anthony Wilkes said the Australian industry was made up of more than
60 regions, which all specialised in different styles.

Ferngrove is one of the largest Australian exporters of wine to Asia with four vineyards covering
363ha in the Frankland and Margaret River region, where it produces 11 varieties of premium red
and white wine.
The company distributes its wines throughout Europe, Canada and Asia, boasting more than 50
exclusive retail stores in China, with more than 100 employees.
Mr Wilkes said in order for Australia to become recognised worldwide as a premium wine producing
nation, it had to promote its diversity.

“For example, the Barossa Valley shiraz in different to the shiraz we produce at Franklin River,” he
said.
Mr Wilkes said the company’s success in China proved there was a huge market for Australian
wine if it was marketed properly.
“We sold a container of wine to China in 2010 and they said they liked the wine so much, that they
made an investment in the company,” he said.
Mr Wilkes said their Chinese investor came from a background of steel and ball bearings.
“But he could see an opportunity with the next phase of urban growth, food and wine as a lucrative
consumer product to get into,” he said

“He wanted to take a product which is premium and offer it into that marketplace.”
Mr Wilkes said the Australian wine industry needed to tell its “regional story” to move forward.
He said because there were many different factors affecting our wine from different parts of the
country, the diversification presented as a selling factor within itself. “We need to tell it in a way that
is exciting … and engaging … and we need to wrap it all up in food experience,” he said
“I think Tourism Australia, with their restaurant Australia and the wine industry, with their
collaboration, together has a very exciting program, which will be launched in the next six months.”
Mr Wilkes also said if overseas customers could be sold “brand Australia” for our wine, it could also
present further opportunity to tie in other products.

Page200of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.He said the growing Asian appetite for high-quality beef was another product that could be collected
into the brand.

“The potential for beef in our network is definitely something on our radar at the moment,” Mr Wilkes
said.
Meanwhile, the National Australia Bank said building links and relationships into China was vital if
Australia’s wine industry was to take advantage of the expected enormous growth in Chinese
consumption.
China is on its way to becoming one of the top three wine-consuming countries in the world within a
few years, and is already the world’s biggest market for red wine at 1.87 billion bottles last year .
Australian wine producers are invited to build valuable contacts in trade, industry and government,
with a wine study tour to China and Hong Kong starting on May 22.
NAB agribusiness Asia desk head Roger Gaudion said most wine producers and exporters realised
there were opportunities in China, but were not necessarily sure how to take the next step.

“Strong relationships, understanding the market and exploring opportunities on the ground are
crucial for long-standing and successful partnerships in China,” he said.

“We know from experience that face-to-face discussions and negotiations are highly valuable in
building a successful venture.”

IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

i426 : Wine | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | ialco : Alcoholic Beverages/Drinks | ibevrge :
Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods
cbrand : Branding | c31 : Marketing/Markets | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types
| nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging
Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document CTM0000020140430ea510000r

Page201of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.