Company Profile - International Container Terminal Services, Inc (ICTSI) - Q4 2014

HD
WC 1,527 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

26 August 2014
Business Monitor International Country Reports
BMICOR
English
© Copyright 2014 Business Monitor International.

Company Profile - International Container Terminal Services, Inc (ICTSI) - Q4 2014

SWOT Analysis
Strengths
* ICTSI has moved from being a national to an international port operator and
ranks among the world's top 10 (by number of containers handled).
* The
group's seven key terminals are all in strong emerging markets, where the
company is well placed to take advantage of increasing trade volumes.
Weaknesses
* Poor landside infrastructure and intermodal connections in the Philippines
and other countries in which ICTSI operates may hamper expansion plans.
Opportunities
* Intra-Asia trade should continue to grow on the back of a free-trade
agreement (FTA) signed between China and the ASEAN-5, which includes the
Philippines, in January 2010.
Threats
* Consumer demand in box shipping's traditional major markets of Europe and
the US, despite gradually picking up, remains sluggish.

TD

Company Overview
International Container Terminal Services, Inc . (ICTSI) is
a Philippines-based company engaged in the management, operation and
development of container terminals around the world. Through its subsidiaries
it provides different services in each port, based on the nature of the
business and industry of the country of operations and the general
requirements of its shipping line and cargo owners. It primarily handles
international containerised cargo, providing a number of ancillary services
such as storage, container stripping and stuffing, inspection, and services
for refrigerated containers or reefers, as well as roll-on roll-off and
anchorage services to non-containerised cargoes or general cargoes. ICTSI
conducts operations in four geographic segments: Asia, India and Pakistan;
Africa; Americas; and Europe and the Middle East. The company's flagship
operation is the Manila International Cargo Terminal, which was the first
Philippine port to be privatised. Other Philippine ports in its portfolio
include Bauan International Port, Inc. (Batangas), Davao Integrated Port and
Stevedoring Services Corp. (Davao City), Hijo International Port Services
(Davao Del Norte), ICTSI Subic Inc. and Subic Bay International Terminal
Corporation (Subic Bay), Mindanao International Container Terminal Services,
Inc. (Misamis Oriental) and South Cotabato Integrated Port Services, Inc.
(General Santos City) . Subsidiary ICTSI Ltd manages the group's foreign
operations, including the development of port concessions overseas.

Page278of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Q114 ICTSI's net income attributable to equity holders was

BMI expects ICTSI, like many international terminal operators, to
Strategy
continue increasing its exposure to emerging markets. It already operates in
some of the world's most attractive emerging markets, including Brazil,
Ecuador and Poland. ICTSI announced its first foray into the Indian ports
sector through an agreement to develop a new container terminal in the state
of Tamil Nadu. ICTSI is a late entrant to the Indian market:
APM Terminals has two container terminals in India, PSA International has
five, and DP World has a further five in operation with another in development
at Kulpi. The operator has signed an agreement with L&T Shipbuilding (LTSB)
jointly to manage and operate the new Kattupalli Terminal, which is close to
the city of Chennai, in India. LTSB was responsible for the construction of
the terminal's first phase with a capacity of 1.2mn twenty-foot equivalent
units (TEUs). The terminal has two berths, 350m and 360 m long. It started
commercial operations in January 2013. A second phase of development will
expand the terminal's capacity to 1.8mn TEUs. Having established a presence in
India, as BMI predicted, ICTSI set its sights on another emerging area in
which it lacks exposure: Africa. As of July 2014 its operations there included
Lekki International Container Terminal Services LFTZ Enterprise (LICTSLE) in
Lagos, Nigeria, Madagascar International Container Terminal Services Ltd.
(MICTSL) in Toamasina, Madagascar and ICTSI DR Congo S.A. (IDRCSA) in Matadi,
Democratic Republic of the Congo. In May 2014 through its subsidiary Victoria
International Container Terminal Ltd. (VICTL) it entered Australia's port
sector, making ICTSI one of the few global port operators boasting facilities
on six continents. ICTSI is being regularly rated by FinanceAsia magazine as
one of the best managed companies of the Philippines, following votes cast by
more than 300 investors and analysts.
Financial Data
up 29% year-on-year (y-o-y), from USD40.7mn in Q113 to USD52.4mn in Q114,
according to the
company's unaudited consolidated financial results for the first quarter of
2014. ICTSI said such change was mainly due to the one-time gain from the
divestment of a non-core asset - in January 2014 it sold Cebu International
Container Terminal, Inc. to Cebu Asian Rim Property and Development Corp. and
Hong Kong Land (Philippines) BV for USD13.2mn. Gross revenues from port
operations were up 19% y-o-y, from USD209.3mn to USD248.9mn. According to
ICTSI, the increase in revenues was mainly due to higher storage revenues and
ancillary services, favourable volume mix, tariff rate increases in certain
terminals, new and renegotiated contracts with shipping lines and forwarders,
and revenue contribution from new terminals in Manzanillo, Mexico and Puerto
Cortes, Honduras. The organic revenue growth - excluding the revenues from the
newly acquired terminals - amounted to 7%. ICTSI's seven key terminal
operations in Manila, Brazil, Poland, Ecuador, Madagascar, China and Pakistan
accounted for 76% percent of the consolidated revenues in Q114. 2013 ICTSI's
net income attributable to equity holders of the parent increased by 20%
y-o-y, from USD143.2mn in 2012 to USD172.4mn in 2013. Gross revenues from port
operations were up 17% y-o-y, from USD729.3mn to USD852.4mn. According to the
company, the increase in revenues was mainly due to volume growth, higher
storage revenues and ancillary services, tariff rate increases in certain key
terminals, and the revenue contribution from the new terminals in Jakarta,
Indonesia and Karachi, Pakistan, and the inclusion of the new terminals in
Manzanillo, Mexico and Puerto Cortes, Honduras The organic revenue growth -
excluding the revenues from the newly acquired terminals and the effect of the
cessation of the operations in Tartous, Syria - amounted to 7%. ICTSI's seven
key terminal operations in Manila, Brazil, Poland, Ecuador, Madagascar, China
and Pakistan accounted for 84% percent of the consolidated revenues in 2013.
2012 ICTSI has posted its 2012 financial results, according to the Journal of
Commerce in March 2013. The company confirmed that net income came to
USD143.2mn, representing a y-o-y increase of 10%. The annual revenue
attributed to its port operations also grew by 10% y-o-y, coming to
USD729.3mn. The volume of twenty-foot-equivalent units handled throughout the
year grew by 8% y-o-y, hitting 5.63mn. 2011 In its 2011 annual report, ICTSI
announced that it had posted revenues from port operations of USD665mn, which
represented a 26% higher than the USD527mn reported in 2010. Earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) was USD281mn, a 14%
higher rise than was recorded in 2010. Net income attributable to equity

Page279of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.ICTSI Enters Australian Port Sector ICTSI through it its

holders increased by 33%, from USD98mn in 2010 to USD131mn in 2011. This
higher net income of USD131mn was mainly attributed to a result of higher
revenues from 'increased volumes, lower financing charges, lower effective tax
rate and a one-time gain on sale of non-core assets', ICTSI declared.
Latest Activity
subsidiary Victoria International Container Terminal Ltd. (VICTL, 90%-owned by
ICTSI and 10% by Anglo Ports Pty Ltd of Australia), has won the 26-year
concession to develop and operate Melbourne's third international container
terminal at Webb Dock at the Port of Melbourne, marking ICTSI's entry into
Australia. The contract with the Port of Melbourne Corporation for the design,
construction, commissioning, operation, maintenance and financing of the Port
of Melbourne's new international container terminal and empty container
park (ECP) at Webb Dock was signed in Melbourne on May 2 2014. The lease
concession extends to 2040 and makes ICTSI one of the few global port
operators boasting facilities on six continents. Phase 1 of the terminal,
encompassing one 330 metres long berth fitted with three post-Panamax
ship-to-shore cranes, 23.7 hectares of yard and off-dock area with fully
automated operations from the gate to the quayside, is expected to be
completed by December 31 2016. It will boast an estimated capacity of
350,000TEUs and will be able to cater for vessels with capacity of up to
8,000TEUs. The terminal will be serviced by a 10 hectare empty container park
with a working capacity of some 200,000TEUs. The construction of the
terminal's superstructure and facilities is planned to begin at the end of
2014. Phase 2 is planned to become operational by December 31 2017, delivering
two additional post-Panamax ship-to-shore cranes on a second 330 metres long
berth. The fully developed 35.4 hectare terminal will have a total of six
post-Panamax ship-to-shore cranes on 660 meters of berth, and annual
throughput capacity of up to 1.4mn TEUs, with the empty container park's
capacity of 280,000TEUs. The total investment into the full development of the
Webb Dock Container Terminal and the ECP is estimated at AUD550mn and is part
of the Port of Melbourne's AUD1.6bn Port Capacity Project.

CO conter : International Container Terminal Services Inc | karwel : PT ICTSI Jasa Prima Tbk
IN

i763 : Port/Harbor Operations | iship : Water Transport/Shipping | itsp : Transportation/Shipping | i43 :
Textiles | iclt : Clothing/Textiles | icnp : Consumer Goods
c01 : Profiles of Companies | ncopro : Country Profiles | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content
Types
phlns : Philippines | india : India | zaire : Democratic Republic of the Congo | manil : Manila | melb :
Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | tamil : Tamil Nadu | africaz : Africa | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz :
Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | bric : BRIC Countries | ceafrz : Central Africa |
devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | indsubz : Indian Subcontinent |
sasiaz : Southern Asia | seasiaz : Southeast Asia

NS

RE

PUB Business Monitor International
AN

Document BMICOR0020140830ea8q00003

Page280of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.