Cyber crime part and parcel of digital age

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Feature
Cyber crime part and parcel of digital age

Laura Cencigh-Albulario
1,019 words
20 May 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
26
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

No modern business is immune to the threat of a digital attack, but boosting protection and planning for
the aftermath can help to lessen its access and impact, writes Laura Cencigh-Albulario

FOR many businesses, being impacted by cyber crime is not a case of if, but when.

One in four businesses have experienced a cyber crime, says PWC’s 2014 Global Economic Crime
Survey. In Australia alone, this is an annual cost of about $4.5 billion.

Small players are not immune from the threat, and are often used as soft targets, or as entry points for
tapping into bigger businesses, according to PWC Cyber Asia-Pacific leader Steve Ingram.

“Everyone’s security is only as strong as the weakest link,” he says. “Service providers, vendors and
customers are all part of an organisation’s system today. If you’re a big business but have a small
business servicing you, they’ve probably got a direct connection into the system.” Last year’s Black
Friday data breech, for example, when credit card details were stolen from millions of Target shoppers
in the US, reportedly saw hackers use use an airconditioning subcontractor’s credentials to gain access
to the system.

The average period of detection of an online security breech is 240 days, and two thirds aren’t picked up
by the organisation itself, but by law enforcers, suppliers, customers or others.
Along with opportunistic smash-and-grab attacks are long-term, strategic hacking operations. “They’re
sitting there quietly, wanting to gather information on who you deal with, passwords and user information
for competitor intelligence or commercial espionage,’’ Ingram says.
“You might be a law or accounting firm looking after a merger and acquisition deal. There might be lots
of security around the acquirer and target, but if it’s not as strong at the law firm that’s advising them,
this will be the entry point.” The vast quantities of personal information made easily accessible through
social media can also weaken defences.

In one example, a manager received a phone call from someone purporting to be his CEO, asking for a
sum of money to be transferred urgently.

He was so knowledgeable about the manager’s interests and family, even enquiring after his children,
that the manager transferred the funds without hesitation. Facebook seemingly gave the scammer all the
information he needed to set the manager’s mind at ease.

The complexity of cyber security threats makes prevention about far more than a firewall. “This is not an
IT issue, it’s a whole of business issue,” Ingram says.
He explains firewall protection is no better than the Great Wall of China. Just as enemies can pass
through corrupt guards, or catapult diseased carcasses over the wall, so too may malicious or naive staff
open the gateway, use a USB with a virus or fall victim to a phishing scam.

Page162of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Deloitte cyber security lead partner Tommy Viljoen says the first step in protecting against cyber crime is
ensuring anyone with access to a company’s systems knows how to operate securely at work and at
home, given the large crossover. “The digital age doesn’t determine what part is work and what part is
home,” he says. “If you’re using the same passwords at home across all your personal websites, and at
work, if one of these is compromised, whoever is using it can try to gain information from a work
perspective.” Next come the IT solutions, including firewalls, basic penetration testing and access
controls. “You cannot operate in the digital economy without this basic security,” Viljoen says. “If this is
outsourced, you need to make sure whoever you’ve outsourced it to is a reputable cloud service that can
assure you your security is handled appropriately.” Thirdly, businesses need to prioritise their cyber
security concerns – what’s of most value to the business, what might be of greatest value to hackers and
what’s most at risk. For a start-up, for example, it might be the intellectual property for their products and
designs.
For a small listed company, hackers accessing business results prior to their release could affect the
share price.

“Outsiders might value what you do in different ways,” Viljoen says. “You cannot spend enough on
security to protect everything and nor should you. It’s about what’s most at risk.” Finally, a cyber security
plan should include processes for what to do when a breech occurs. “You will be hacked at some stage;
they will break through so be prepared,” Viljoen says.

Monitoring systems and an appropriate response procedure that won’t prompt malicious damage from
the hackers and destroy evidence should be part of this plan.

Insurance against cyber attacks is another aspect.
Deloitte financial crime lead partner Ivan Zasarsky says businesses should not assume they’re covered
for cyber security breeches.

“Policies are designed to protect tangible assets – there aren’t enough test cases to ascertain whether
this extends to intangible assets,” he says. “Your laptop might be covered, but the theft of the data that’s
on it is far more valuable. You don’t want any surprises when you’re already struggling financially to cope
with a breech.” Liability is another big aspect.

Regulatory changes being rolled out across the globe are adding to the responsibility placed on
company heads to protect against cyber security breeches.

“What seems to be standard practice today may be tomorrow’s circumstances of negligence,” Zasarsky
says.

“The personal risk of officers of corporations that face these cyber breeches is not only looking at
damages, reputation, share price and brand. The spectre is changing where prosecution in terms of
negligence is reaching the executives themselves.” Keeping up with the risks of cyber crime should
simply be accepted as the cost of operating in a digital age, Zasarsky adds.“What won’t change is the
threat, but what will change is the response to the threat, the regulation and heightened awareness of
the absolute need to pay attention to that risk.”

IN

NS

isecpri : Security/Privacy Software | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i330202 : Software | i3302021 :
Applications Software | icomp : Computing | itech : Technology
ghack : Computer Crime | reqrcm : Suggested Reading Computers | gcat : Political/General News |
gcrim : Crime/Courts | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter
| redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB News Ltd.
AN

Document AUSTLN0020140519ea5k00001

Page163of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.