What do China ’s MOFCOM’s recent merger clearance decisions mean for you?

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

What do China’s MOFCOM’s recent merger clearance decisions mean for you?

Thomas Jones
993 words
15 May 2014
Mondaq Business Briefing
BBPUB
English
(c) 2014 Mondaq Ltd

China's Anti-Monopoly Law (AML) is one of the youngest antitrust laws in the world having come into
effect just over five years ago.
The AML has primarily been enforced by Ministry of Commerce People's Republic of China
(中华人民共和国商务部), or MOFCOM. In the years since the law's introduction, MOFCOM's capabilities
in key areas such as competition and market analysis as well as monitoring and enforcement have
grown rapidly.

MOFCOM's latest decisions demonstrate its increasing sophistication, particularly in its willingness to
consider complex behavioural and structural remedies. Also apparent, is MOFCOM's readiness to
impose harsher merger remedies where key sectors of China's economy are involved. This is most
evident in last year's conditional approval of the global mega deal between Glencore and Xstrata.

GELNCORE/XSTRATA1

On 16 April 2013, MOFCOM announced its conditional approval of Glencore International Plc's
(嘉能可国际公司) (Glencore) USD$35 billion global takeover of Xstrata Plc (斯特拉塔公司) (Xstrata).
MOFCOM was the last of the regulatory authorities to approve the transaction with approval first received
from the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission in Australia in July 2012, followed by the
Department of Justice in the US, the Competition Commission of South Africa and the European
Commission in the EU.
MOFCOM's lengthy decision, published in Chinese only, is relatively detailed and can be seen as a
move toward greater transparency. MOFCOM focused on the overlaps between the merging parties in
the markets for copper concentrate, zinc concentrate and lead concentrate. MOFCOM found the merger
was likely to restrict competition in those markets and result in a significant increase in vertical integration
by Glencore in those markets.
MOFCOM thus imposed a "crown jewels" structural remedy requiring Glencore to sell the US$5.7 billion
Las Bambas copper project in Peru. Failure to do so in the required time would result in the sale of other
Glencore assets (namely Glencore's interests in the Tampakan, Frieda River, El Pachon and Alumbrera
projects) at prices without a reserve. Behavioural remedies were also employed including obligations to
supply to Chinese customers at benchmark prices.

MEDIATEK/MSTAR2
On 26 August 2013, MOFCOM cleared the acquisition of MStar Semiconductor, Inc. (Cayman)
(开曼晨星半导体公司) (MStar Cayman) by Media Tek. Inc. (联发科技股份有限公司) (MediaTek) more
than a year after it was first notified in July 2012. The proposed acquisition involved the exchange of
every ordinary share of MStar Cayman for 0.794 ordinary share of MediaTek plus NT$1 in cash. The
total transaction value was RMB ¥24.55 billion (approximately US$4 billion).

The merger parties are principally engaged in the design and manufacture of integrated circuit chips for
multi-media display and wireless communications devices. MOFCOM focused on the (likely) effect of the
merger on the Chinese market for LCD TV control chips of which MStar possessed 65% market share
and MediaTek 20%. MOFCOM concluded the merged entity would eliminate the remaining suppliers and
the threat of new entry would not pose an effective constraint on the post merger entity.

Page139of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.In light of these concerns, MOFCOM imposed a set of extensive "hold-separate" behavioural remedies in
order for MStar's LCD TV control chip business (Morningstar Taiwan) to be maintained as an
independent competitor in the market

IMPLICATIONS OF MOFCOM'S APPROACH

The remedies imposed by MOFCOM in Glencore/Xstrata are much more 'draconian' compared to those
in MediaTek/MStar, particularly given the significantly lower level of concentration (combined
post-merger market share of 12.1% in the supply of copper concentrates in Glencore/Xstrata as
compared with 80% of LCD chips in MediaTek/MStar).

Given the competition issues identified in MOFCOM's decision on MediaTek/MStar, it's questionable why
the transaction was approved or why behavioural remedies were used instead of structural remedies
such as divestiture.
Perhaps where China's access to key commodities is at issue, MOFCOM is more ready to intervene and
impose harsher merger remedies, even remedies with an extraterritorial reach.

Whilst MOFCOM has generally been receptive to behavioural remedies, over the past few years it has
become more experienced and confident in monitoring more extensive behavioural remedies. Similar to
its overseas regulatory peers, MOFCOM has begun imposing more complex behavioural remedies such
as the "hold separate" remedies as seen in MediaTek/MStar.

MOFCOM is also now willing to impose specific remedies targeted at the competition issues identified.
For example, to ensure that Morningstar Taiwan remains independent from MediaTek, MOFCOM did not
shy away from specifying the limited shareholder's rights of MediaTek in Morningstar Taiwan. A further
example is the new obligation for the merger parties to submit a detailed implementation plan before deal
closing (and subject to MOFCOM approval).

These decisions are likely to encourage merger parties that may have previously considered the
available remedies too limiting, to notify MOFCOM and other regulators and offer more creative
approaches to remedies.

Footnotes
1Read the MOFCOM decision on Glencore/Xstrata here (only available in Chinese)

2Read the English version of the MOFCOM decision on MediaTek/MStar here

The content of this article is intended to provide a general guide to the subject matter. Specialist advice
should be sought about your specific circumstances.

Most awarded

firm and Australian deal of
the year Employer of Choice for
Women
Australasian Legal Business Awards
Equal Opportunity for Women
in the Workplace (EOWA)

Mr Thomas Jones

Corrs Chambers Westgarth

Level 32, Governor Phillip Tower

1 Farrer Place

Sydney

2000

AUSTRALIA

Tel: 29210 6500

Fax: 29210 6611

Page140of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.E-mail: Savannah.Bassant@corrs.com.au

URL: www.corrs.com.au/thinking

Click Here for related articles

(c) Mondaq Ltd, 2014 - Tel. +44 (0)20 8544 8300 - http://www.mondaq.com

CO
IN

NS

RE

cncomr : China Ministry of Commerce | march : Glencore Xstrata PLC
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources |
ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | imet : Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | c18 : Ownership Changes |
cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News
Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Anti-trust/Competition Law

IPD
PUB Mondaq Limited
AN

Document BBPUB00020140516ea5f00009

Page141of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.