Local developers look for overseas partners

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Local developers look for overseas partners

SARAH DANCKERT
413 words
3 December 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
23
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Development: A greater number of offshore developers are expected to team up with local groups as
Melbourne’s development site market continues to boom, according to experts.

Only weeks before last Saturday’s Victorian state election, the former Napthine government started an
expression of interest campaign for E-Gate, an enormous residential infill site on the cusp of the
CBD.

The sale process comes as Melbourne is awash with capital from developers from Malaysia,
Singapore and China.

CBRE director Mark Wizel — who specialises in city sales and retail sales — said there was a good
chance that the buyer of E-Gate would be a partnership between a local developer and an offshore
group.
“It wouldn’t surprise me at all if a group like an A-REIT (Australian real estate investment trust) such
as Lend Lease, Mirvac or Stockland bring in a partner from offshore for a project like E-Gate,” Mr
Wizel said.

He said there had been a number of examples where a local developer had harnessed capital from an
Asian group, with Grocon successful in brining in equity investors or direct buyers for various stages
or parts of its CUB site development on the CBD fringe.

“What you are finding now is that the smart local players who probably resented Asian capital based
on the fact that the Asian capital was driving up land values and making it difficult for them to
compete, have changed their attitude significantly in 2014.” Mr Wizel said that in addition to the need
for capital for new projects, a lot of local developers had realised that Asian groups were in a better
position to market apartment stock offshore.
“If you’ve got a developer from China who builds say 25,000 apartments a year versus a developer in
Australia who builds 1500 apartments a year, the Chinese developer is going to have a pool of buyers
and a pool of inquiries and a database associated with their business that’s 15 to 20 times larger than
the Australian developer,” Mr Wizel said.

KPMG senior partner Bernard Salt told a crowded Melbourne Market briefing at CBRE’s offices
yesterday that over the past 14 years the city’s population growth has outstripped that of Sydney in
every single year.“Melbourne is on the ascendancy at the moment. There’s only one other time in
history when Melbourne has added more to its population,” Mr Salt said.

IN

NS
RE

i5010022 : Residential Building Construction | i501 : Building Construction | iconst : Construction | icre
: Real Estate/Construction
gpol : Domestic Politics | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania

Page22of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB
AN

News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141202eac300036

Page23of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.