Australian winemaker puts up For Sale sign

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Leisure
Australian winemaker puts up For Sale sign

Bernard Lagan and Dominic Walsh
687 words
5 August 2014
10:00
thetimes.co.uk
TIMEUK
English
© 2014 Times Newspapers Ltd. All rights reserved

The Australian wine maker behind Penfolds, Wolf Blass and Rosemount has put itself up for sale
after receiving a A$3.4 billion bid from KKR, the US private equity firm.
Treasury Wines Estates, which in April rebuffed an offer of A$3.1 billion (£1.7 billion) from KKR ,
said that while it was now opening its books to the buyout firm, it was doing so on a “non-exclusive”
basis, effectively opening the door to rival offers.

KKR, which this time has boosted its firepower by teaming up with Rhône Capital, another US private
equity firm, has pitched its bid at A$5.20 a share, a 50 cent increase on its first offer of A$4.70 share
and a premium of 41 per cent over Treasury’s closing share price of A$3.69 a share prior to its initial
approach.
The Treasuryboard said that, although it had decided the improved offer meant it was “in the
interests of its shareholders to engage further with KKR and Rhône”, the offer remained subject to
several conditions, including completion of due diligence.
The board said that it would wait for a formal offer before considering whether the price was superior
to the value that would be created by the new strategy put in place by Michael Clarke, the recently
appointed chief executive of Treasury.
A recent upsurge in wine exports to China has helped repair expectations for Treasury’s prospects.
Profits had crashed by 38 per cent in the six months to February caused by the high Australian dollar,
a fall off in sales to China last year, Treasury’s own decision to lift prices on other brands and a glut
of stock in its US venture, where it was forced to destroy thousands of gallons of wine that had
passed its sell-by date.
Treasury, which in 2011 was spun off from Foster’s, the brewer, as a separately quoted company,
has since April been tipped to attract rival interest from the likes of China’s Bright Food Group,
France’s Pernod Ricard and the US-based Constellation Brands.

Shannon Rivkin, a director at Sydney’s Rivkin Securities, told Reuters: “Absolutely there are [rival
bidders], they’ve now kind of set a starting point for the price. This is going to be the point now where
anyone who has an interest will be able to have a look at the books as well.”

However, Olly Wehring, managing editor of Just-Drinks, the industry website, was less convinced.
“While some parts of the company certainly carry appeal — such as the Penfolds brand and the US
unit — the likelihood of a counter offer for Treasury in its entirety seems remote.”
It is the Penfolds brand, founded in Adelaide in 1844 by Christopher Rawson Penfold, that is said to
be the main attraction to KKR. It generates up to 75 per cent of Treasury’s profits and, according to
analysts, there are higher volumes than usual of Penfold’s high-end red wines resting in barrels,
waiting to come onto the market over the next two to three years.

Page389of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Under Mr Clarke, a former Kraft and Coca-Cola executive and erstwhile chief executive of Premier
Foods, Treasury has unveiled a bold plan to bring forward the release of its latest prestige Penfolds
Grange, Australia’s most collected wine, to October instead of the usual May roll-out. The move was
seen as pivotal part of Mr Clarke’s strategy to accelerate Penfolds as a global brand.

Mr Clarke, who has dual Irish-South African nationality, is expected to stay on in the event of a
takeover, having worked closely with KKR last year as an advisor on its unsuccessful bid for drinks
brands Ribena and Lucozade, which GlaxoSmithKline eventually sold to Suntory of Japan.

Top six winemakers by volume (nine-litre cases) 2013

E&J Gallo 80.5m

Constellation Brands 60.7m
The Wine Group 46.8m

Castel 43.1m

Concha y Toro 30.4m
Treasury Wine Estates 29.4m

Source: IWSR

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

rhcap : Rhone Capital LLC
i426 : Wine | i8150203 : Private Equity | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i81502 :
Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | ialco : Alcoholic Beverages/Drinks | ialtinv : Alternative Investments
| ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv :
Investing/Securities
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cacqu : Acquisitions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News UK & Ireland Limited
Document TIMEUK0020140804ea84001xi

Page390of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.