The great wine smash and grab

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

The great wine smash and grab

Alison Griswold
1,019 words
28 June 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
50
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

The Well-Lived Life Even vintage wines can be forged – and spotting them takes science, writes Alison
Griswold.
In 2006, Atlanta wine collector Julian LeCraw jnr paid $US91,400 (then $122,600)  for a single bottle of
1787 Chteau d'Yquem, at the time the highest price ever for a white wine.

That purchase was dwarfed by that of one Christopher Forbes, who bid £105,000 (then $191,000) in
1985 for a 1787 Chteau Lafite etched with the initials "Th.J," and advertised as formerly belonging to
Thomas Jefferson.
The landmark sale inspired other ambitious collectors, including Palm Beach billionaire business
tycoon Bill Koch, to seek out their own Jeffersonian wine. In late 1988, Koch spent about half a million
dollars to add four of the famed bottles to his personal cellar.
The world of elite wine collecting is an expensive and high-stakes hunting game; connoisseurs such as
Koch, for whom money is no object, will spend hundreds of thousands of dollars on rarities. But as
prices for these bottles have soared, so has another risk – one that LeCraw and Koch both discovered
the hard way. The most esteemed bottles just might turn out to be fake.

A recent spate of scams has shone a spotlight on how pervasive the problem might be. Last October,
European police arrested seven people in connection with an international counterfeiting ring that sold
400 bottles of fake Romanée-Conti wine, among the world's most expensive, for more than €2 million
($2.9 million).
A few months earlier, police in China arrested more than 10 suspects linked to millions of dollars in
fake wine sales.
Two weeks ago, Koch appeared on America's ABC network to admit he'd been suckered with his wine
purchases.Bottle forgeries easy to make
LeCraw is suing the seller of his bogus bottle, Antique Wine Co, for $US25 million. And in December,
a United States federal jury convicted the famed rare wines dealer, California-based Indonesian Rudy
Kurniawan, of peddling tens of millions of dollars of home-brewed mixes with sham labels. Koch was
one of his victims.
"Making forgeries of wine bottles, unfortunately, is really not all that difficult especially since one could
assume that making a 'spot-on' counterfeit watch would be much more difficult and time-consuming,"
says Mark Solomon, the CEO of TrueBottle.com, an online database for wine collectors.
Carbon dating can approximate the age of the wine in a bottle, but can be imprecise. Some forgers will
print their own labels to alter cheap bottles; others will buy empties of the best years and makes, then
refill them with other wines. That means the glass bottles themselves can also fetch substantial sums.
An empty bottle of a prized 1982 Chteau Lafite Rothschild might fetch $US1500. "But if you go to
1983," Solomon says, "the price of the bottle is a fraction of what an '82 goes for."

Page23of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.A clever forger might therefore just also alter the last digit of the date.
The bottles are rarely sold directly to auction houses, instead winding their way into collectors' cellars
through a series of sales, where they can hide among dozens of authentic bottles. And you can hardly
pop the cork off a rare vintage for a taste check before it goes up for bidding.
Charles Curtis, a former head of wine for Christie's in both Asia and the Americas, explains that
authenticating wine begins with a request for documentation (receipts and so on). Next comes a
physical inspection of the bottle to see if the materials – cork, label, glass – are consistent with the
stated time and place of production, if the branding is consistent, and if any of the pieces show signs of
tampering. An examiner can use a high-powered flashlight to examine the cork through the bottle and
see if the wine itself is the correct colour and contains the proper amount of sediment for its age.

"It is seldom possible to establish authenticity with 100 percent accuracy," Curtis says, "but these
methods normally give enough evidence to form a credible opinion."
So how to get at the problem of checking the wine itself?Carbon dating and isotopes

One method has been to enlist carbon dating to approximate the age of the liquid in a bottle, but this
can prove imprecise. Instead of looking for carbon, a variation on this approach searches for the
isotope caesium-137, an artificial form of radioactivity that was created through nuclear testing and is
therefore not present in wines bottled before the advent of such technology.

The isotope is absorbed from the soil by the roots of grapevines, and gets locked into the bottle during
the winemaking process. Bill Koch's camp famously sought out Philippe Hubert, a French physicist who
had experimented with caesium-137 testing, to have one of his alleged Jeffersonian bottles tested in a
lab beneath the Alps on the French-Italian border.

Another – easier – answer may have been found in a device that's emerged in the last year: the
Coravin System which uses a fine, hollow needle to pass through the cork, and extract wine, without
damaging the cork and setting off the oxidisation clock.
Could Coravin be the solution? Maybe. Using Coravin to sample a wine before a sale would have to
be disclosed at auction and could potentially devalue the bottle. But far more problematic is this simple
fact: lots of people don't know what old wine is supposed to taste like.
"People may taste a bottle of genuine old wine that's matured and may not like the flavours," Curtis
says. "There are some tasters who are superb judges of such matters, and there are others who are
not."
Wine tasting, after all, is subjective. For all but the most refined of palates, it has to do as much with
what we think of a bottle as what we know. If we think a wine is expensive – and forgers think they
know we think that – chances are it will taste that way, too.

Slate

NS

RE
PUB
AN

gwine : Wine | gcat : Political/General News | gfod : Food/Drink | glife : Living/Lifestyle | gwbs :
Wine/Beer/Spirits
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140627ea6s0000b

Page24of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.