Media Release: CPA Global

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Media Release: CPA Global

617 words
25 September 2014
AAP MediaNet Press Releases
AAPMPR
English
© 2014 Australian Associated Press Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved

AAPMEDIA RELEASE PR58020 CPA Global Appoints Marcos Antunes as General Manager Asia Pacific

SYDNEY, Sept. 25 /PRNewswire-AsiaNet/ --

﻿ ﻿

CPA Global, the world's leading specialist in intellectual property (IP) software and services, has
appointed Marcos Antunes to head up its business across Asia Pacific, which is a major growth area for
the Company.

(Logo: http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20130910/638525 )

(Photo: http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20140924/708461 )

As General Manager, Asia Pacific, Antunes is responsible for leading CPA Global's continued expansion
in the region, helping meet the rapidly increasing demand for IP management services and software.
Antunes has a strong commercial background and extensive business experience in Asia Pacific.
Before joining CPA Global, he was Business Development Director, Asia Pacific, for international
marketing services company TAG, part of the Deutsche Post DHL Group. In this role, Antunes led key
client relationships in regional markets including Japan, Mainland China, Hong Kong, South Korea,
Singapore and Australia.

Previously, Antunes worked for 10 years with Madrid-based AFA Press, a leading content and service
provider for international media. He held a number of senior management positions with AFA Press, most
latterly being Commercial Director, responsible for managing teams across 32 countries. Before that, he
was Regional Sales Director, covering emerging markets in Asia, Middle East, South America and Africa.

Commenting on Antunes' appointment, CPA Global's Chief Business Development Officer, Simon
Webster, said: "We are delighted to appoint Marcos Antunes to lead our business expansion in Asia
Pacific. This is an important region for CPA Global and a major part of our international growth strategy."

Added Antunes: "This is an exciting time for the IP industry in Asia Pacific and for CPA Global. With our
world-class IP management solutions, CPA Global is strongly positioned to support the ongoing
development of regional IP markets and to help meet the ever-increasing demand for IP services and
software from corporations and law firms across Asia Pacific."

About CPA Global
CPA Global is the world's leading intellectual property (IP) management software and services
specialist, and an international provider of outsourced legal services. With offices across Europe, the
United States and Asia Pacific, CPA Global supports many of the world's best known corporations and
law firms with a range of IP and broader legal services, helping them to manage risk, cost and capacity,
and realise greater value for their businesses and IP assets.

CPA Global helps corporates and law firms in managing valuable IP Rights, such as patents, designs
and trademarks, ensuring that IP portfolios are protected, maintained and regularly reviewed in order to
maximise value. Working closely with its clients, CPA Global ensures they have the best information on
which to base IP decisions, and the best support in terms of helping implement those decisions. CPA

Page93of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Global is also a leading player in the outsourced legal services sector, providing high quality and
cost-efficient legal support services such as transaction support, contract management, anti-bribery and
compliance, and legal research.

Founded in Jersey, Channel Islands in 1969, CPA Global today employs more than 1,800 people,
serving clients' needs in 200 jurisdictions through its own offices and an extensive agent network. CPA
Global's diverse client list ranges from major global corporations, headquartered in Europe, North
America and Asia Pacific, to small and medium-sized enterprises and innovation start-ups; and from top
international law firms to national and regional law and IP firms. For further information, please visit:
http://www.cpaglobal.com.

Media Contacts:

Steve Clark +44(0)207549-5504, sclark@cpaglobal.com

Victoria Knowles +44(0)20-7549-4585, vknowles@cpaglobal.com

SOURCE: CPA Global

CO
IN

NS

RE

cpannu : CPA Global Ltd | dbppst : Deutsche Post AG | cinii : Cinven Ltd
i7901 : Postal Service | i835 : Legal Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | icargo :
Freight/Cargo Transport | itsp : Transportation/Shipping
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c411 : Management Moves | cslmc : Senior Level Management |
npress : Press Releases | c41 : Management | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex :
C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | nswals : New South
Wales

PUB Australian Associated Press Pty Ltd
AN

Document AAPMPR0020140925ea9p0002u

Page94of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.