Singapore firms selling off Australian assets as resource boom fades

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Singapore firms selling off Australian assets as resource boom fades

395 words
15 July 2014
Nikkei Report
NKRP
English
© Copyright 2014. Nihon Keizai Shimbun, Inc. All rights reserved.

MASAYUKI YUDA, NQN staff writer

SINGAPORE -- Companies in Singapore are actively selling off large amounts of Australian assets.
These companies are trying to adjust their portfolios to reduce risks, amid growing signs that Australia's
economy is slowing as the resource boom fades.

Olam International, Singapore's leading agricultural products trader, announced in late June that it will
sell 80% of outstanding shares in its subsidiary Olam Grains Australia to Japanese trading giant
Mitsubishi Corp. for $64 million. Although Olam will continue to hold the remaining 20%, the risk will be
reduced substantially compared to the sole investment.
Last year, Singapore-based budget carrier Tiger Airways Holdingssold 60% of its outstanding shares in
its Australian arm to Virgin Australia. The sale was also intended to limit the risk of unprofitable
operations.
Demand for resources in China has slowed amid its efforts to shift toward domestic demand-led
economy. Accordingly, Australia's economic growth, which had been led by exports of resources, has
slowed as well.

Australia-based assets accounted for 10% of the portfolio of Temasek Holdings, the Singaporean
sovereign wealth fund, as of the end of March, down 3 points from a year earlier. Meanwhile, the ratios
of Chinese and Singaporean assets rose.

Australia has long been a promising market for Singaporean companies due to its proximity and high
growth potential. There have been moves, however, to shift funds to Southeast Asia and China, in
hopes of greater growth potential and economic growth.
The sale of Australian property firmAustraland Property Group by CapitaLand, Singapore's largest
real-estate developer, is a case in point. CapitaLand has decided to withdraw from Australia by selling
all of its 59% stakes in Australand last November and this March. The real-estate developer has
prepared to focus on the development in its core markets of Singapore and China by making
CapitaMalls Asia, its commercial facility-related subsidiary, private.
Nonetheless, Frasers Centrepoint, the Singaporean property developer, has moved ahead with the
acquisition of Australand. Lim Ee Seng, CEO of Frasers Centrepoint, said that the acquisition of
Australand will enable his company to attain its goals, including the increase in its overseas revenues
and strengthening of its bases in Australia, more quickly.

Australia appears to remain attractive for companies that put emphasis on the diversification of their
portfolios.

CO

IN

RE

mtsubc : Mitsubishi Corp | olamil : Olam International Limited | tgrgr : Tiger Airways Holding Limited |
vrbair : Virgin Australia Holdings Ltd
i61 : Wholesalers | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i75 : Airlines | i7501 : Scheduled Passenger Airlines | i8396 :
Diversified Holding Companies | iairtr : Air Transport | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ifodwh :
Food Wholesaling | ilowair : Low Cost Airlines | itsp : Transportation/Shipping
singp : Singapore | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
seasiaz : Southeast Asia

Page19of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IPC
PUB
AN

EG001000
Nikkei Digital Media Inc.
Document NKRP000020140716ea7f0000e

Page20of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.