Lazard Asset Management LLC; Lazard Japan Asset Management Hires Yugo Ishida as Chief Executive Officer

HD

WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Lazard Asset Management LLC; Lazard Japan Asset Management Hires Yugo Ishida as Chief
Executive Officer
408 words
21 January 2014
China Weekly News
CHWKNW
77
English
© Copyright 2014 Chemicals & Chemistry via NewsRx.com

2014 JAN 21 (VerticalNews) -- By a News Reporter-Staff News Editor at China Weekly News -- Lazard
Asset Management LLC (LAM) announced that Yugo Ishida has joined Lazard Japan Asset
Management K.K. as Representative Director and Chief Executive Officer, effective immediately. Based
in Tokyo, Mr. Ishida will lead the growth and development of LAM's business in Japan, which includes
local investment management, as well as Japanese sales and distribution of LAM's investment
strategies.

"We are pleased and honored to welcome Yugo Ishida to Lazard Asset Management," said Ashish
Bhutani, Chief Executive Officer of LAM. "In a distinguished 34-year career, he has achieved a breadth
and depth of experience that will be a powerful addition to our global leadership team. Yugo is well
positioned to drive the continued growth and expansion of our business in Japan."

Mr. Ishida joins LAM from Nomura Asset Management, where he most recently served as an Advisor to
the Board of Directors. Previously, he held a number of senior global leadership roles at Nomura,
including President and Chief Operating Officer of Nomura Asset Management, Chairman of Nomura
Holdings, Inc.'s European, Asian and North American subsidiaries, Chairman of Nomura Europe
Holdings plc., President and CEO of Nomura Europe Holdings and Nomura International plc., President
and CEO of Nomura Italia SIM p.A., Director of Nomura International (Hong Kong), and Executive
Director and Head of Investment Advisory and Marketing (Hong Kong).
An indirect subsidiary of Lazard Ltd (NYSE:LAZ), LAM offers a range of equity, fixed-income, and
alternative investment products worldwide. As of September 30, 2013, LAM and affiliated asset
management companies in the Lazard Group managed $176 billion worth of client assets. For more
information about LAM, please visit www.Lazardnet.com. About Lazard Lazard, one of the world's
preeminent financial advisory and asset management firms, operates from 40 cities across 26 countries
in North America, Europe, Asia, Australia, Central and South America. With origins dating to 1848, the
firm provides advice on mergers and acquisitions, strategic matters, restructuring and capital structure,
capital raising and corporate finance, as well as asset management services to corporations,
partnerships, institutions, governments and individuals.
Keywords for this news article include: Asia, China, Japan, Finance, Hong Kong, Lazard Asset
Management LLC.

Our reports deliver fact-based news of research and discoveries from around the world. Copyright 2014,
NewsRx LLC

CO
IN

NS

lazpar : Lazard LLC | lazltd : Lazard Ltd
i831 : Financial Investments | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
| i814 : Banking | i83101 : Investment Banking
c411 : Management Moves | cmmm : Middle Management | cslmc : Senior Level Management | c41 :
Management Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter

Page113of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

jap : Japan | austr : Australia | hkong : Hong Kong | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | china : China | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging
Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Expanded Reporting

IPD
PUB NewsRx.com
AN

Document CHWKNW0020140117ea1l0000r

Page114of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.