Good Morning WA | Friday, November 21, 2014

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

news
Good Morning WA | Friday, November 21, 2014

1,195 words
20 November 2014
Avon Valley Advocate
FAVONV
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

Good morning this fine Friday!

Are you interested in what is happening around the State and the country?

If you answered a resounding yes, this is the place for you.

Our morning breakfast report provides you with all the latest news from across the state and around the
country.

Sit back, relax, take a bite of toast and catch up on what has been making news.

MARGARET RIVER: The Margaret River Gourmet Escape is on today and over the weekend and the
Margaret River Mail has put together a dedicated page for coverage of this food and wine festival.
Check it out here.

DUNSBOROUGH: Police are set to target toolies, drugs and alcohol at leaver's festivities to be held in
Dunsborough next week. Thousands of are expected to arrive next Monday.

MANDURAH: A Halls Head man will face Mandurah Magistrates Court following a police raid on his
home where they seized cash, methylamphetmaine, firearms, jewellery, gold bullion, motorcycles and
various drug paraphernalia.

AVON: Despite being offered a recording deal by a Chicago-based music publisher, a local Wheatbelt
musician plans to remain grounded.

MORANGUP: Toodyay Police have seized drugs and firearms, with the assistance of Wundowie and
Goomalling Police, from a property on McKnoe Drive, Morangup.

MERREDIN: A $6000 donation from Collgar Wind Farm will support Merredin's vital St John
Ambulance volunteers. Two laptop computers have been purchased to help run the sub-centre.
DONNYBROOK: Nannup wine producer Whimwood Estate Wines recently won a Gold Medal for their
Chardonnay, winning the Shire of Boyup Brook Best Blackwood Valley White Table Wine at the 2014
Blackwood Valley and WA Boutique Wine Show.

STATE: Firefighters have been banned from exceeding the speed limit by more than 20km/h,
prompting concerns that lives and property will be put at greater risk.

Need a national news snapshot first thing - well, we have you covered.

" To check out the front pages of Fairfax publications for today, click here

"The NSW Rural Fire Service has declared a total fire ban today in the following areas: Greater Hunter,
Greater Sydney Region, Central Ranges, North Western and Upper Central West Plains. This includes
Newcastle, Cessnock, Blue Mountains, Penrith, Sydney, Bathurst, Moree and Bogan.

" Matthew James McAlister says he can't recall brutally attacking a bus driver who was simply doing his
job, but judging by the screams of the passengers on board it will live with them forever.

Page97of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved." Dozens of people gathered at Hargreaves Mall outside the office of Senator Bridget McKenzie to
protest cuts to the ABC. Community and Public Sector Union deputy secretary Rupert Evans told the
crowd they had a responsibility to stand up and defend cuts to the organisation.
" Intruders deliberately lit insulation batts on fire at a building site in the Nowra CBD on Thursday night.

"Where's the most expensive unleaded petrol in NSW? Tumut, the Daily Advertiser, says. Anomolies
between standard grocery costs and disparate petrol prices across the state put forward by
supermarket monopolies have left the Tumut community frustrated and wanting answers.

"A former St Patrick's College teacher says she and her partner are living a nightmare eight months
after they were accused of planning to blow up a Middle Eastern consulate where they worked.

" Two farmers are calling for community support to help build an on-farm butchery. Mount Beckworth
Free Range farm owners Chris Peel and Diane Snell are hoping to raise more than $36,000 through a
crowdfunding website to buy a mobile van and establish a store and cool-room on their property.

" Police respond to an -average of 285 domestic -violence -incidents each month across the Central
Hunter local area command. Officers at Maitland police -station have crunched the -numbers for the
area, which includes Cessnock and Kurri Kurri, to highlight the need for action on White Ribbon Day.

"Eyre Peninsula barley growers are among those set to benefit from the newly announced free trade
agreement between Australia and China.

" Two women in their late 30s escaped with minor injuries after a fiery car crash on the Mitchell
Highway around 10 kilometres west of Bathurst on Thursday.

NATIONAL: Clive Palmer has walked out of an interview. Again. The Palmer United Party leader
removed his microphone and terminated the interview with Emma Alberici on Thursday after the
Lateline host's persistent questioning over his Chinese business deals.
KANGAROO ISLAND: Scientists said a rare pygmy right whale found stranded on a Kangaroo Island
beach is likely to have been weaning. Locals made a number of attempts to guide the whale back out
to sea, but it continued to return to shore.

KATHERINE: The issue of problem drinking in Katherine is never far from the public discourse and one
community member is fed up with inaction. Toni Tapp-Coutts said it was time for the Katherine Town
Council, the Northern Territory government and the community to be as proactive about alcohol
management as they were about the cost of petrol.

BALLARAT: A new cheerleading team out-danced every club in its division to claim victory at a national
championship at the weekend.

MARGARET RIVER: Superstar chef Heston Blumenthal had such a blast at Margaret River Gourmet
Escape last year, he will be back for the three-day event which starts today.

BURNIE: Live on television, Somerset's Kim Eade chased her husband down the road barefoot with
phone in hand. The panel of the nation's most popular breakfast show, Sunrise, cackled as Mrs Eade
screamed for her husband frantically as he drove off.

MOUNT ISA: North-west Queensland residents are twice as likely to die from an avoidable death
compared with the Queensland average.

WOLLONGONG: The annual Stockland KidzWish Christmas Party put smiles on the faces of 4300
special needs children and carers who packed WIN Entertainment Centre on Thursday.

LONDON: Australian bedrooms, backyards and even babies' cots are among the images on a Russian
site showing live feeds from thousands of homes and businesses around the world.

US: Celebrated movie director Mike Nichols has died. He emerged in the late 1950s as half of a
groundbreaking satirical comedy team and found his true calling in the next decade as director of the
landmark films Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? and The Graduate. He was 83.

BANGKOK: Screenings of the latest Hunger Games film have been cancelled in the Thai capital after
opponents of the country's military rule adopted a three-finger salute from the movie as a sign of
defiance.

Page98of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.BEIJING: Chinese authorities have detained respected Korean-American Christian aid worker Peter
Hahn on suspicion of embezzlement, amid a wider crackdown on aid groups along the North Korean
border.

INTERNATIONAL: Blistering heat across Australia but frigid conditions across much of the continental
US " what's going on?

A Xavier High School student's planned adventure could be a forerunner for a new schoolies program.
Mason Collins, 18, is substituting the beach for the outback for his end-of-year celebrations after being
inspired by a trip to Yuendumu through the school's immersion program last year. Read more

RE
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FAVONV0020141121eabk00001

Page99of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.