Australia acts on failed fund LM

CLM
SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Funds
Business
Australia acts on failed fund LM

Benjamin Robertson Benjamin.robertson@scmp.com
572 words
21 November 2014
South China Morning Post
SCMP
1
6
English
(c) 2014 South China Morning Post Publishers Limited, Hong Kong. All rights reserved.

Regulator to seek fines and bans on executives after collapse of property fund robs thousands of
investors in HK and elsewhere of their savings

Australia’s securities regulator announced yesterday it is taking legal action seeking fines and
disbarment orders against directors of an A$800m (HK$5.3 billion) property fund whose collapse in
March last year spelt financial ruin for thousands of Australian and expatriate investors around the
world, including Hong Kong.

Directors of Gold Coast-based LM Investment Management, including founder Peter Drake, are
accused of “failing to act with the proper degree of care and diligence” regarding transactions in the
A$400m Managed Performance fund, the Australian Securities and Investment Commission (ASIC)
said in a press release.

According to the announcement, ASIC is commencing civil penalty proceedings in the Federal Court
of Australia against Drake and fellow LM directors Francene Mulder, Eghard van der Hoven, Simon
Tickner, and Lisa Darcy, in relation to loans made by the fund to a Drake-controlled development
called Maddison Estate.

“These allegations are flimsy at best and in some instances, totally misleading and incorrect,” and
LM directors “will vigorously defend these allegations”, Drake said in response to the ASIC
announcement.

The fund was LM’s flagship product and was heavily marketed overseas as a low-risk, stable-return
vehicle ideal for people planning a retirement. Investors interviewed for an earlier Post Magazine
investigation into LM said they were neither told the fund was unlicensed nor that redemption request
delays had begun as early as 2009. The fund is now valued at 5 Australian cents on the dollar by
administrators.

Between 2008 and 2012, Maddison’s loan limit was increased from A$40m to A$280m and loans
from the fund were approved by LM directors “in the absence of independent valuations or feasibility
studies”, according to ASIC. The site at Maddison in Queensland remains undeveloped.

Drake rebutted allegations against LM in the earlier interview. He blamed the fund’s failure on foreign
exchange hedging costs. He also slammed administrators for selling fund assets at fire-sale prices,
diminishing its value.

Howard Clark-Burton, senior executive at Financial Partners, one of the biggest sellers of LM funds
in Hong Kong, resigned and left the firm days after the Post story was published.

Page54of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.He and his co-director, Peter Kende, were quoted as saying, “Once we became aware of issues at
the Managed Performance Fund, Financial Partners ceased all new offerings, and programmed all
existing clients to redeem their holdings at their next maturity date.”

This was refuted by investors who said they only learnt the fund was in trouble after it went into
administration.

The fund paid high up-front indemnified commissions, equivalent to three per cent of the sum
invested for every year an investor locked up their money. Originally structured as a one-year
investment term, by late 2012 the fund was offering a five-year fixed-return product that paid 15 per
cent commission to advisers.
Hong Kong investors have filed complaints against their financial advisers with the Securities and
Futures Commission, the Confederation of Insurance Brokers and the Hong Kong Police.

According to ASIC, the maximum fine for a director breaching their duties is A$200,000. The
regulator also wants to disqualify LM directors from managing companies and providing financial
services in Australia.

NS

RE

PUB
AN

crbrea : Regulatory Breach | c131 : Regulatory Bodies | ncolu : Columns | c12 : Corporate
Crime/Legal Action | c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry
News Filter
austr : Australia | hkong : Hong Kong | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
bric : BRICS Countries | china : China | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
South China Morning Post Publishers Limited
Document SCMP000020141120eabl0004r

Page55of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.