Plan to kickstart stalled mines

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Plan to kickstart stalled mines

PAUL GARVEY
595 words
3 November 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
17
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

EXCLUSIVE THE $US7.9 billion ($8.9bn) Denham Capital private equity firm is eyeing a suite of
stalled mining projects around the country as it readies to launch its new Australia-focused mining
venture.
Denham has recruited former Karara Mining chief executive Steve Murdoch to run the new business,
called Auctus Minerals, and will back the venture with $US130 million in capital.

Boston-based Denham is one of the largest resources-focused private equity firms globally, with the
group involved in about 40 different ventures around the world.
Mr Murdoch said Auctus was looking to secure development-ready mining projects that were
struggling to secure finance through traditional channels.

Construction costs were falling sharply on the back of the downturn in the resources sector, he said,
opening opportunities for groups like Auctus that were backed with significant amounts of capital.

“There’s some real quality projects out there which for a range of reasons, particularly with the
negative sentiment in the market, have found it extremely difficult to get traditional sources of funding
and have sat there and not been developed,” Mr Murdoch said.

“The combination of the guys at Auctus Minerals and Denham Capital is a very powerful combination,
because we have the ability, skills and confidence to be able to drive these projects forward and we
have access to the capital, experience and culture of Denham.” Mr Murdoch will be joined at Auctus
by former Karara chief financial officer Paul Sims, and Mr Murdoch’s former colleague from Cape,
Terry O’Connor.
He said the team he had assembled had deep experience in managing profitable mining operations
in low commodity price environments. “There’s been a generation of professionals and executives in
the Australian mining industry who haven’t gone through cyclical lows,” he said.

“They’ve had a sustained period of massive capital injections, particularly in Western Australia where
there’s been an extended period of the party going on. We understand what it takes to run a tough
executive team.” Mr Murdoch was also the former general manager of metallurgy at Mount Isa Mines,
where he helped drive a return to profitability despite the low commodity prices of the time.
The managing director of Denham in Australia, Bert Koth, said the firm had spoken to investors
exposed to Karara Mining’s namesake iron ore project in WA and was told that Mr Murdoch had
helped save the troubled development from collapse.
Karara, a joint venture between China’s Ansteel and Australia’s Gindalbie Metals, has battled
numerous challenges and overruns during its development.

Page42of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mr Koth said the feedback about Mr Murdoch’s time at Karara, and his history at Mount Isa, had
convinced him Mr Murdoch was the right man for the job. “This is one of the few teams out there in the
Australian market that has a steady long-term record of eliminating redundant dollars,” he said.
He said Auctus had already looked at about 1000 projects around the company, and had narrowed
down a list of several possible ventures — mostly in base metals — that could be pursued in the
months ahead.

“There are a number of companies out there that are financially constrained, cannot raise the
development capital and in some cases are run by management that is not ideally suited for the
development stage of a mining project,” Mr Koth said.Earlier this year, Denham recruited former
Gloucester Coal managing director Barry Tudor to run Pembroke Resources, a new venture focused
on acquisitions in Australia’s coking coal industry.

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

denhc : Denham Capital Management LP
i8150203 : Private Equity | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | ialtinv : Alternative Investments |
ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141102eab30001b

Page43of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.