Australia's RBA Likely on Hold Until Mid-2015, Says HSBC -- Market Talk

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

Australia's RBA Likely on Hold Until Mid-2015, Says HSBC -- Market Talk

1,646 words
4 November 2014
15:55
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

0455 GMT [Dow Jones] The Reserve Bank of Australia's statement was similar to previous ones as it left
rates steady at 2.50% today, says HSBC, noting the board reiterated it expects a "period of stability" in
interest rates and the currency "remains above most estimates of fundamental value", suggesting they
would still like a lower Australian dollar. On inflation, the RBA suggested that the third quarter
consumer-price numbers have not materially altered the outlook, HSBC says in a report. "We continue to
expect that the RBA's next move for policy will be up, around mid-2015," HSBC says.
(rebecca.thurlow@wsj.com; Twitter: @beckthurlow)

Editor JSM

TD

0453 GMT [Dow Jones] The AUD/USD has had a wild ride on the mix of stronger retail sales, a wider
trade deficit and a slightly weaker labour market and "the lack of fresh dovish tones [from the central
bank] and a recycled phrase about the overvalued exchange rate now sees the AUD/USD trade a cent
higher at 0.8730 compared with the earlier lows," says TD Securities head of Asia-Pacific research
Annette Beacher. "We suspect that this will greatly disappoint the board, given how many members are
vocal about how an AUD/USD closer to 0.80-0.85 would be quite beneficial for the economy." She says
her year-end target of 0.90 remains in place "due to a combination of positioning, seasonals and the U.S.
Federal Reserve frequently hosing down tightening expectations." These factors "outweigh any feeble
RBA jawboning attempts," says Beacher. (rebecca.howard@wsj.com; Twitter: @FarroHoward)

Editor JSM

0450 GMT [Dow Jones] The Reserve Bank of Australia has had a habit of producing some interesting
decisions on the day of the Melbourne Cup, Australia's major thoroughbred horse race, marketed as "the
race that stops a nation,". The central bank however has taken pity on enthusiasts this year by providing
a statement that's little changed from October's, says RBC Capital Markets. "It seems unlikely that the
RBA will use the last meeting of the year to shift its stance in any significant fashion." Thus, the focus is
likely to become more acute on macro-prudential measures, due by year end, to stem the growth of
housing credit in the economy. "To the extent that these will slow what is seemingly the only part of the
economy growing above-trend, they are likely to reinforce our--and the market's--expectation that rate
hikes are a distant prospect," RBC says. The bank expects the 2.50% cash rate to persist until the fourth
quarter of 2015. (rebecca.thurlow@wsj.com; Twitter: @beckthurlow)

Editor JSM

0447 GMT [Dow Jones] The Reserve Bank of Australia board appears very comfortable with current
interest rate settings, says CommSec. "And why wouldn't they? Inflation is under control; low wage
growth is capping inflationary pressures; the supply of homes is lifting to meet strong demand; and global
economic conditions are mixed. Rates certainly don't need to go up in the current environment; nor are
there grounds for lower rates." says CommSec chief economist Craig James in a report after the RBA

Page213of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.leaves its cash rate target at 2.5%. CommSec expects rates to remain stable until the second half of
2015. "While we believe that underlying economic conditions are firmer than the Reserve Bank assumes,
that needs to be translated into actual business spending and employment. The problem at present is
that Australian companies are super-conservative--a point the Reserve Bank Governor makes at every
opportunity." (rebecca.thurlow@wsj.com; Twitter: @beckthurlow)

Editor JSM

0440 GMT [Dow Jones] Australia's central bank board left the cash rate steady at 2.5% at their
November meeting, and delivered a statement very similar to that in October. The "only new detail of
note--and it wasn't really new--was the reintroduction of the language that the Australian dollar is 'above
most estimates of its fundamental value,'" says Ben Jarman, economist at JP Morgan. He says the fact
that the Reserve Bank of Australia governor reintroduced this language even though Australian dollar
has started declining again suggests he sees fair value as drifting lower along with commodity prices,
and this may make the currency readjustment a more urgent requirement. However, given that not much
appears to have changed for the RBA "we don't expect any dramatic forecast changes or shifts in
narrative in this Friday's statement on monetary policy," he says. (rebecca.howard@wsj.com; Twitter:
@FarroHoward)

Editor JSM

0423 GMT [Dow Jones] NZD/USD gets a lift after RBA leaves interest rates unchanged at a record low
2.5% Tuesday, once again citing the high Australian dollar as a headwind for growth and pointing to a
continuing period of steady rates. "It's trading around the session highs," says Murray Hindley,
foreign-exchange manager at ANZ Bank. The pair is at 0.7753 and Hindley says it has support at 0.7700
and resistance around 0.7780. (rebecca.howard@wsj.com; Twitter: @FarroHoward)

Editor: MNG

0408 GMT [Dow Jones] Asahi Group Holdings (2502.TO) underperforms the broader indexes, now up
just 2.7% at Y3,518 (vs. +3.5% for the Nikkei), after the firm booked a 3Q operating profit of Y44.4
billion (down 5% on-year) albeit on par with many brokerage estimates. "Sales volumes of both beer and
soft drinks were sluggish owing to unfavorable weather," says Nomura Securities analyst Satoshi
Fujiwara. "An apparent return to growth in sales of ready-to-drink products in Australia is likely to provide
reassurance going forward." (bradford.frischkorn@wsj.com)

Editor: MNG

0407 GMT [Dow Jones] Saudi Arabia's Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi is slated to attend a climate conference
in Venezuela this week--he will have much to discuss with representatives of the cash-strapped nation.
Venezuela President Nicolas Maduro has said he would join Ecuador in "defending prices," before OPEC.
Venezuela, which depends on oil for 96% of export revenue, has seen the price of its barrel tumble to
around $75, far from the $100 mark officials maintain is fair. Saudi Arabia cut prices to a two-year low for
crude slated for the U.S. al-Naimi is slated to meet with Venezuelan Foreign Minister Rafael Ramirez on
Wednesday. (Ezequiel.minaya@wsj.com)

Editor JSM

0403 GMT [Dow Jones] Chinese banks have a "more friendly" lending attitude and are expected to offer
more discounts on mortgage rates, says Citi in a note, as homebuying sentiment improves after the
mortgage easing rolled out on September 30. Banks so far have only offered limited discounts of around
5% from the benchmark lending rate of 6.55%, say Citi analysts Oscar Choi and Marco Sze in a note.
The analysts recently visited Qingdao, Wuhan and Guangzhou and noted that Wuhan's strong population
inflow supports demand, while Guangzhou is still constrained by home purchase limits and Qingdao
faces weak demand and larger supply. "While mortgage rate discount has not been introduced so far at
the local level as expected, volume rebounded moderately in October," says the note. Developers are

Page214of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.still wary of investing and buying land so real estate investment--which is the government's top focus--will
likely stay weak, it adds. (esther.fung@wsj.com; Twitter: @estherfung)

Editor JSM

0357 GMT [Dow Jones] Bank of Japan officials managed to catch the market flat-footed last Friday, by
playing down bad economic data, emphasizing their optimism over prices, and offering no hints of policy
changes in the preceding days. But by doing so, the BOJ may have undermined its own ability to make
the market understand through its words what it really feels about the economy and policy. "From here
on, you must be aware that it is risky to interpret messages from the BOJ as a hint of potential policy
changes," says SMBC Nikko Securities senior economist Koya Miyamae. "You rather need to be
suspicious that those messages may be fake, an attempt to catch people by surprise."
(Takashi.nakamichi@wsj.com)

Editor JSM

0347 GMT [Dow Jones] A 36-member committee to draft Thailand's new constitution is likely to be put
together today. The new charter is expected to sharply limit the influence of former leader Thaksin
Shinawatra and his allies, who have won every parliamentary election since 2001, says Eurasia Group,
Washington-based political risk consultant. Bavornsak Uwanno, a legal expert and law academic, will
likely chair the committee, says Ambika Ahuja, Eurasia's analyst. Through the charter drafting committee,
the army will likely insert a clause that prevents those who were temporarily banned from politics in the
past from running in future elections. "This would permanently disqualify over two hundred of Thaksin's
allies who were temporarily banned from politics, severely undermining Thaksin's bid to win elections
when the army eases control," Ahuja says. (warangkana.chomchuen@wsj.com)

Editor JSM

0341 GMT [Dow Jones] The USD/CNY is slightly lower Tuesday despite a higher fixing, on more
corporate demand for the yuan. The pair is at 6.1175 versus 6.1183 Monday's close. The central bank
set parity at 6.1543 versus 6.1525 Monday. "There isn't much volatility in the onshore trading today, and
general expectations that the pair would continue to weaken and reach 6.1000 in near term hasn't
changed," says a trader at an Asian bank. Offshore, one-year USD/CNY non-deliverable forwards are up
at 6.2465/6.2485 from 6.2435/6.2469 late Monday. (esther.fung@wsj.com; Twitter: @estherfung)

Editor JSM
(END) Dow Jones Newswires

November 03, 2014 23:55 ET (04:55 GMT)

CO
IN
NS

rbkaus : Reserve Bank of Australia
i81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | namt : All Market Talk | ndjmt : Dow Jones Market Talk | nfiac
: Fixed Income Asset Class News | nfxacb : Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class
Premium News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
AN

Document DJDN000020141104eab4000dw

Page215of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.