BHP coal division keeps it lean to keep its workers keen on productive outcomes

Business
BHP coal division keeps it lean to keep its workers keen on productive outcomes

SE
HD
BY
John Durie
WC 1,557 words
PD
3 April 2014
SN
theAustralian.com.au
SC
NLAUSW
ED
Australian
PG
17
LA
English
CY
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.
LP

TD

BHP boss Andrew Mackenzie has told coal boss Dean Dalla Valle not to expect another cent from head
office until he can get substantially better than the 7 per cent returns he is delivering from the coal assets.
Dalla Valle presented a relatively upbeat assessment of the market with energy coal growing at 2.4 per
cent a year in a world where 20 per cent of the planet lacks access to reliable energy and more demand
coming from the likes of India than China for his metallurgical coal assets.

With head office shutting off funds his only choice is to improve performance through better productivity,
which is starting to deliver in a detailed five-year program working on the assumption that all losses are
identifiable, quantifiable and eliminated.

The way he sees it, there are 8760 hours in every year and everyone has to start work each day knowing
what they can deliver each hour and how that can help the team around you.

“We obsess about hours here,” he said in an interview.

Equipment is logged so a team in the Bowen Basin knows the people in the Pilbara are running the same
trucks for longer or faster than they are. Everyone wants to be on top of the league table in part because
you get paid more.

The program is highly collaborative, with the shop floor setting the agenda under direction from divisional
managers. That’s part of the program, with bottlenecks assessed and cleared and production adjusted
accordingly. New projects are assessed on the same metrics and then on a global level mines are
assessed to see if they meet the tests set by the best producers.

It’s a version of the Lean manufacturing program used by a range of companies from Boral to CBA to
BHP but in this case according to Dalla Valle “it’s about job security because we all want a profitable
future”.
Last year Mackenzie ran the top 500 executives in the company through an executive learning program
teaching them just how to work to achieve the ultimate goal — to run their equipment at nameplate
capacity 24 Continued on Page 24 Continued from Page 17 hours a day, seven days a week.

In his CEDA speech in Brisbane, he cited the example of his truck drivers who earn 50 per cent more than
their equivalents in New Mexico in the US but apart from saying the difference was purely in wages he
declined to provide details.

In part this was historical because in boom times managers are happy to pay more but “if we are paying
more then the drivers will have to be more productive and we have to get more out of them”.
The productivity agenda in the coal division is working, with truck performance up by 40 per cent, through
new larger trucks that carry the equivalent of 20 Corolla cars or two jumbo jets in each load, improved
shift changes and cycle times.

The starting point is to cut absolute costs, so if something cost $20 they want to get it back to $15 and
work through the process and go back to suppliers and then start all over again.

Page70of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.It’s a relentless drive that Mackenzie has instilled in the company and the likes of Dalla Valle are
implementing with almost zealous intent.

This, of course, is part of the simplification agenda that also includes asset sales and consideration of
bigger portfolio adjustments that have been ongoing for some time, but this week have been publicly aired
with some enthusiasm.

Earlier this year BHP chairman Jac Nasser convened a dinner in Melbourne for former chief executives
and the board, featuring such names as Brian Loton and former Billiton boss Brian Gilbertson, who was
quickly turned out just six months into his post in 2003.

Then chairman Don Argus was in attendance, but the two were not seated together. Still, as one
participant noted, Gilbertson sure did a great job for his shareholders when he merged his company with
BHP back in 2001 and, by implication, it was not such a good job for BHP shareholders.

If the reported exercise is more than an attempt to fast forward asset sales, maybe BHP shareholders will
at least get something. UBS analyst Glyn Lawcock noted if BHP proceeds with the plan to repackage
what would essentially be the old Billiton assets it would have minimum impact on BHP earnings.
He suggested adding the Cannington silver lead and zinc assets into a new vehicle comprising the
unwanted aluminium, nickel and manganese and the end result would be a 13 per cent fall in revenues for
the remaining BHP assets, along with a 3 per cent fall in earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortisation and a 2 per cent fall in net profit.
The assets in question reported a loss of $US523 million in the last financial year against a $US2.9
billion result in 2006, such was the impact of falling commodity prices.

The split on Lawcock' s numbers would have an immediate positive boost to the BHP core and as the
company's 2001 annual report noted — trumpeting the Billiton merger — “a new day begins”.
Dalla Valle said he was about halfway through his revamp of the coal division and, while there were
“pockets of excellence, there was plenty of work to do’’.

Bread and butter issues RENAISSANCE man Chris Delaney has delivered a 45 per cent fall in earnings
at Goodman Fielder, which is not how the original script was written.

Yesterday's profit downgrade will see full-year earnings before interest and tax at $160m compared with
$289m in 2011.

Some of the fall was deliberate with about $40m going in asset sales and everyone well understands the
problems of being caught between the supermarket behemoths and commodity prices.

But as much as Delaney talks up his intention to cut costs further, the market is fast losing patience.

The stock price closed down 22 per cent at a 19-month low of 47c a share on heavy volume, with 31.8
million shares changing hands and, while Delaney stressed the company was well within its debt
covenants, he declined to reveal just what they were.

Asset value writedowns were flagged and dividend cuts are certain. Delaney, it must be said, inherited an
under-invested basket case when he took the reins nearly three years ago.
New Zealand billionaireGraeme Hart stripped the best assets, such as Uncle Toby’s, prior to its refloat in
2005 and then dumped his dairy assets into the mix just to add further to the problems.

The New Zealand dairy assets earn $55m in EBITDA on average but much less this year as Delaney has
to match the higher farm-gates prices imposed by market behemoth Fonterra.

He has engaged Credit Suisse to find a buyer such as Lino Saputo, Parmalat or just about anyone
interested in the asset and a dream deal could deliver about $650m based on an 11.5 times multiple.

The Fijian chook business is climbing off the floor, but elsewhere trouble is all over the place.
In dressings, it seems rival Kraft has had its product on sale at half price for the past 13 consecutive
weeks.

That is tough to sell against.

In spreads, the aforementioned Fonterra's innovation with spreadable butter is fast outselling Delaney's
spreads which are losing share.

Page71of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.In the $1.1bn loaf bread market, Delaney speaks for about 34 per cent of the market and supplies Coles
with house-brand product.

Rival George Weston, which supplies Woolies with private label, has 29.5 per cent.

Private label bread share is falling at around 17 per cent, but the fast mover is so-called in-store baked
products with 14 per cent.

Like Fonterra's spreadable butter, this is a market innovation and Coles, by way of example, buys the
bread mix from an outside supplier Bread Solutions in Melbourne while Delaney provides some
ingredients to Woolies.

It still costs more to truck the bread to the supermarket than it does to make the product and the days in
which bread is delivered fresh to the store each day are fast disappearing.

The big suppliers simply can’t afford it any more.

Delaney has cut his plant numbers down but when you only have one plant in town, and it is broken, then
trouble follows, as happened recently when Perth broke down and Delaney had to ship bread from his
Adelaide plant at great cost.

A new, efficient plant is the answer, but that costs money, which is something that Delaney does not have
much of.

Some in the market say the only answer is to virtually draw a line in the sand and start again, whereas
Delaney is trying to do it all in bits.

Increased bread volume was meant to lower costs, but in the last half it didn’t, so his cost savings under
project “renaissance” were not as big as planned.

So another 300 jobs will go from the 6000 staff base and the savings target for next financial year will be
increased.It’s all just fiddling around the edges. The ship continues to sink.

i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

CO bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC
IN
NS
RE
PUB News Ltd.
AN

Document NLAUSW0020140402ea43000lb

Page72of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.