Buyer beware as big money backs resources

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Buyer beware as big money backs resources

Tony Kaye
489 words
25 May 2014
The Sunday Times (Perth)
SUNTIP
SundayTimes
74
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

WHAT do Andrew Forrest, Kerry Stokes, John Kahlbetzer and Mark Creasy have in common?
Well, firstly, they’re all incredibly rich. Forrest, an iron ore magnate, has an estimated fortune of more
than $5 billion. Stokes, majority owner of the Seven West Media group, is worth about $2.5 billion.

Then there’s Kahlbetzer, a reclusive octogenarian with around $800 million in assets, who mostly
built his wealth through agriculture.
And last comes Creasy, a WA prospector who first struck it rich through gold, and whose personal
wealth has since soared to more than $600 million.

But the common thread joining these rich Australians is not just their mega-fortunes. It’s actually
mining and energy because, over the past few months, each of them has made multimillion-dollar
investments into smaller listed Australian resources companies.
Forrest has just invested $12 million into the WA uranium exploration stock, Energy & Minerals
Australia, and has already turned a tidy 115 per cent profit from what – to him at least – is petty cash.
Meanwhile, Perth-based Stokes is making a $25 million play for the oil and gas explorer, Nexus
Energy, and also is holding a controlling $70 million stake in Iron Ore Holdings.
Kahlbetzer is trying something else on for size, through a $1.5 million investment in the Lucapa
Diamond Company, an Australian explorer with interests in the African country of Angola.
Creasy, on the other hand, has diverted his gaze from gold and increased his focus on nickel via
Sirius Resources – the company behind Australia’s best nickel discovery of the past 10 years.

Collectively, their capital investments represent a huge confidence booster for the smaller end of the
mining and resources spectrum.

The message to everyday investors from these entrepreneurs is that the small resources sector may
finally be waking up after three years of slumber. This is despite the fall in the iron ore price over the
past week to below $US100 per tonne, which has sent a strong signal that China is actively scaling
back its industrial production and will therefore need less of our raw minerals to turn into steel and
other manufactured products.
Yet, global investment banks and others focused on the mining sector are quite confident in a broad
upturn in the resources cycle, particularly as the US, Europe and other countries gain economic
momentum. China will continue to grow too, although at a slower pace.

A return to resources by big investors is influenced by expectations that commodity prices will rise as
a result of reduced supply.

Page62of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.What the super-rich are doing is very interesting.
But mining investment is inherently high-risk. So remember – making or losing a few million here
and there is only petty cash to them.Tony Kaye is editor of Eureka Report. To read more by Tony
Kaye and other experts, visit www.eurekareport.com.au

CO
IN

RE

PUB
AN

emaltd : Energy and Minerals Australia Limited | wanhl : Seven West Media Limited
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i475 : Printing/Publishing | i4751 : Newspaper Publishing | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | imed : Media/Entertainment | imet : Mining/Quarrying | ipubl : Publishing | iuran
: Uranium Ore Mining
austr : Australia | perth : Perth | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | waustr : Western
Australia
News Ltd.
Document SUNTIP0020140527ea5p0000e

Page63of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.