France: The new "Hamon Law" introducing French class actions New consumer law introduces significant provisions with respect to competition...

HD France: The new "Hamon Law" introducing French class actions New consumer law introduces

significant provisions with respect to competition and distribution law

BY Mélanie Thill-Thayara
WC 3,852 words
PD 17 August 2014
SN Mondaq Business Briefing
SC BBPUB
LA English
CY (c) 2014 Mondaq Ltd
LP

You might also be interested in...

From the Editor

TD

European Union: Damages Directive approved by EU Parliament

New rules to harmonise procedure for antitrust damages actions

European Union: New EU competition rules on technology transfer agreements

The new rules could require the amendment of certain clauses in technology transfer agreements

Italy: New developments in the "Pfizer saga"

A recent judgment provides further guidance on the interaction between antitrust law and patent law in the
pharmaceutical sector

UK: The Competition and Markets Authority launches operations

The new UK competition authority will have additional powers and handle cases differently than before

Canada: Consent agreement reached with e-book publishers

Canada has reached a settlement with e-book publishers following settlements in the EU and the US
Canada: Abuse of dominance do-over: Appeals court orders new hearing in real estate case

Court rules on whether a trade association, which is not a competitor in the market, can engage in abuse
of dominance

Japan and South Korea: Crackdown on bid-rigging in East Asia

Asian competition authorities show they are increasingly serious about bid-rigging activities
China: Life Technologies/ Thermo Fischer
China's antitrust regulator is a key gatekeeper in international merger control filings
China: MOFCOM adopts Simple Cases Regulation

Adoption of simplified merger review rules follows recent European Commission reforms

Australia: The country may lead the world on competition reform

In Australia, a comprehensive reform of competition policy is taking place

South Africa: The growing importance of public interest factors in merger control

Page246of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Foreign companies planning acquisitions in Africa need to consider the impact on the public interest

South Africa: Dawn raids rise again

The South African Competition Commission is currently intensifying its efforts in relation to cartel
infringements

Introduction

In order to balance the powers of economic stakeholders, France has adopted a new consumer law,
popularly known as the "Hamon Law".1 The new statute, adopted by the French Parliament on 13
February 2014, was validated on 13 March 2014 by the French Constitutional Council, which left standing
most of the provisions that have an impact on competition and distribution law. The law was formally
promulgated on 18 March 2014, by publication in the Official Journal, although certain of its provisions will
only enter into force subsequently, either on a date specified in the law or once certain implementing
decrees are promulgated.

The most significant aspects of the Hamon Law are (i) the introduction of the class action, (ii) the extension
of powers of agents of the French Competition Authority (FCA) and the Ministry of the Economy, and (iii)
new provisions, which strengthen the framework of commercial relationships.

Class actions "à la française"

Up to the present time, consumers faced significant roadblocks to bringing legal actions, including the
costs of proceedings. The law gives them a new weapon, enabling them to join an association authorised
to obtain legal redress from companies which have not complied with their legal or contractual obligations.
This new right of action is, nevertheless, subject to some stumbling blocks that may limit its effectiveness,
particularly with regard to indemnification of damages resulting from anticompetitive practices.

Who can act?

Only duly authorised associations for the defence of consumers, which are recognised as being
representative at a national level (and not ad hoc associations formed to deal with a particular violation),
can bring class actions. Fifteen such associations are currently recognised. Businesses and professionals
cannot participate in class actions as they are reserved solely for physical person consumers.

For which violations?

A class action may be brought in the event of any failure by a business to comply with its obligations,
whether legal or contractual, either in the context of a sale of goods or supply of services, or with respect
to anticompetitive practices.

For what remedies?

Only actual damage to economic interests may be the subject of a class action, and not corporal or moral
damages (for which consumers still need to exercise ordinary remedies under law). In order to facilitate the
proof of damages, the Hamon Law permits consumers, at any stage in the procedure, to request the judge
to order any measure necessary for the preservation of evidence or other documents, including evidence
or documents held by the company against which the action has been brought.

How?

The class action permitted under the Hamon Law functions on an "opt in with publicity" basis and
therefore, unlike the opt-out system prevalent in the USA, requires a positive act on the part of consumers
wishing to participate in the action.

The class action takes place in three phases.

Introduction of the action: The action is commenced by the consumer association before the Tribunal de
Grande Instance (TGI), i.e. the primary level court of jurisdiction (any TGI is potentially competent to
exercise jurisdiction, unlike what was initially contemplated) pursuant to terms which will be fixed by a
decree to be adopted by the French Conseil d'Etat (a body which not only acts as France's highest
administrative court but also has certain rule-making functions). The TGI will decide the matter on the
basis of individual cases (at least 2) presented by the association and will issue a single judgment, referred
to as a "declaratory judgment on liability", dealing with the issues of the legal admissibility of the class
action, the liability of the business, the criteria and time periods during which consumers may join the
class, the nature of damages which may be indemnified, the terms of indemnification and the measures
adopted to publicise the judgment. The business may also be ordered to pay a provisional amount to cover
expenses incurred by the association which are not included in judicial costs. A portion of the amounts due

Page247of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.by the business may also be consigned with the Caisse des Dépôts et Consignations, a French financial
institution.

Joining the class: Consumers may only join the class after publication of the declaratory judgment on
liability. The "class" includes consumers who are in a similar or identical situation with respect to the same
business(es) and which comply with criteria for joining the class determined by the judge.

The Hamon Law does, however, institute a simplified procedure in which this second phase is eliminated,
in cases where the identity and number of consumers harmed are known from the outset and where such
consumers have suffered damages in the same amount or in an identical amount per goods or services
provided or by reference to a period or term. In such case, the judge, after having ruled on the liability of
the business, may order it to indemnify the consumers directly and individually. The conditions under which
this simplified procedure applies will be determined by a decree to be adopted by the Conseil d'Etat.

Individual requests for indemnification: The conditions of indemnification of consumers are specified in the
declaratory judgment on liability, which can provide either for direct payment by the business to the
members of the class or indirect payment through the association or the person assisting the association
(who must be a member of a regulated legal profession, a list of which will be determined by a decree to
be adopted by the Conseil d'Etat). In the event of difficulty, the association can bring an action for
enforcement before the same TGI or have recourse to mediation in order to obtain indemnification of
individual damages.

This procedure results in some insecurity for the businesses being sued, as they are unable to gauge the
magnitude of the damages that they will be required to pay until all of the relevant consumers have made
themselves known by joining the class. Nevertheless, the Constitutional Council ruled that this procedure
complied with rights of defence, since the business can challenge the action of the association (by
contesting the admissibility of the class action in the first place, its own alleged liability, the definition of the
class of consumers alleged to have suffered damages, the criteria established for joining the class, and the
nature and the extent of the damages to be indemnified, etc.), as well as challenging subsequent demands
for individual indemnification.

When?

Conseil d'EtatThe provisions relating to class actions apply immediately to factual situations which are not
time-barred, subject to promulgation of the decrees to be adopted by the dealing with the conditions for
commencement of the action, the simplified procedure described above and the list of regulated legal
professions entitled to assist an association in the representation of consumers for the purposes of their
indemnification. It should be recalled in this respect that the normal limitation period for liability is five years
from the date on which the victim knew or should have known of the facts. In addition, the commencement
of a class action tolls the limitation periods for individual actions in damages.

Specific provisions relating to competition law

As regards competition law, the class action follows the same principles as those above but aims at
enabling consumers to obtain indemnification for damages resulting from anticompetitive practices as
determined by a national or European competition authority or jurisdiction ("follow-on").

In theory, such an action may be brought before the decision of the competent authority has become final,
or even before the authority issues a decision, which would require the TGI before which such action is
brought to stay its own proceedings. In practice, however the association will find that it is in its own
interest to wait, since a final decision determining the existence of a violation of competition law will
constitute an irrebuttable presumption that the relevant business is at fault.

The declaratory judgment of liability can only be issued once the portion of the decision of the competition
authority relating to the liability of the business is no longer capable of challenge. On the other hand, the
fact that the amount of fines can still be contested does not present an obstacle to such judgment being
issued.

This point is important for any business against which proceedings have been opened by a competition
authority, as such business could be dissuaded from seeking leniency or a settlement (or non-contest of
objections (non-contestation des griefs) before the FCA). These negotiated procedures trigger a waiver by
the business of its right to contest its liability, and their use could therefore increase the risk of class
actions.

It is however easy to see the limits of such actions in competition law since consumers must always prove
that they suffered an actual prejudice as a result of the anticompetitive activity sanctioned by the
competition authority, which can only be indemnified on condition that it is direct, actual and certain. Such
proof can be particularly difficult to demonstrate due to the length of competition proceedings, unless the

Page248of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.association acts on a considerably "upstream" basis, as soon as there is an initial suspicion of
anticompetitive activity, and requests the TGI to order conservatory measures in order to preserve
evidence.

With respect to limitation periods, the class action for anticompetitive practices is time-barred five years
from the date on which the decision acknowledging the violation has become final (without regard to
potential appeals with respect to fines). It should be noted, however, that the limitation period will be tolled
in the event of the opening of a procedure by the European Commission or by a national authority of an
EU Member State.

Strengthening of the powers of agents of the FCA and the Ministry of the Economy

With respect to competition investigations, the Hamon Law (i) strengthens the powers of agents of the FCA
and the Ministry of Economy in the event of "simple" investigations (i.e. investigations commenced without
a requirement of judicial authorisation), (ii) increases the obligation of cooperation of businesses, and (iii)
creates a new power of injunctions and sanctions in the event of violation of the rules relating to price
transparency, restrictive practices or other prohibited practices (particularly the fraudulent increase or
decrease of prices) (Title IV of Book IV of the French Commercial Code). All of these provisions apply
immediately, except those relating to powers of injunctions and sanctions, which will be the subject of
subsequent decrees of the Conseil d'Etat.

Extension of powers of agents in simple investigations

In the case of simple investigations, agents have the power of obtaining physical access to premises,
obtaining communications or the ability to take copies of professional documents, obtaining information
and justifications and soliciting expert evaluations, but may not undertake searches or seizures or
interrogate people to obtain verbal evidence.

In addition to a number of minor additions (right of agents to be assisted by any qualified person, right to
verify identity), the Hamon Law substantially modifies the right of access of agents by granting them:

Access not only to all premises, terrains or means of transport for professional use, but also to premises
which serve both as a dwelling and as a place of business. In this case, however, the Hamon Law grants
the occupant of the premises a right of opposition which, if exercised, requires the agents to obtain an
authorisation of the "juge des libertés et de la detention" (a judge with special jurisdiction regarding
individual liberties) of the TGI with jurisdiction. The law also provides that investigations may only occur
between the hours of 8:00 am and 8:00 pm, but agents may have access to professional premises outside
of these hours if such premises are open to the public or if production, manufacture, transformation,
conditioning, transportation or commercialisation activities are then in progress; and

Most significantly, access to software and computerised data, which constitutes a major risk for businesses
taking into account the ever-increasing dematerialisation of information. In order to scrutinise operations
which use computerised data, agents are therefore granted access "to software and stored data, as well as
to the restitution in unencrypted form of information which facilitates the accomplishment of their mission",
and "to request the transcription by any appropriate means of documents directly utilisable for the
purposes of their scrutiny." This new right, which can be considered as constituting a genuine right to data
capture without judicial authorisation, was the subject of strong opposition when the bill was debated in
Parliament. However, according to the parliamentary debates, no actual verification, search or seizure of
computerised data should be possible in this respect. The agents may only use this procedure for
documents of which they have a clear knowledge and they have no coercive power to require the business
to furnish data and software. However, in the absence of precision in the text, these "guarantees" seem to
be limited and argue in favour of vigilance in order to avoid any risk of abuse. The companies should
therefore train their IT personnel, who will in practice become the "guardians" of the companies' rights.

The Hamon Law has also increased the scope of such powers by modifying article L. 450-1 to permit the
FCA to use them not only for investigations of anticompetitive practices and business concentrations, but
also for the application of the provisions relating to the attributions of the FCA, to procedure, decisions and
appeals (Title VI of Book IV of the French Commercial Code), which means that new cases of simple
investigations may arise, particularly with respect to sectorial investigations, injunctions or undertakings.

Lightened formalism and heavier sanctions for all competition investigations

From now on, a simple copy of minutes taken during an inspection can be communicated to a business,
rather than a double of the original as previously required, which implicitly authorises agents to
communicate such minutes on an a posteriori basis. Businesses should therefore be increasingly vigilant
following an investigation and will benefit from scrupulously noting the contents thereof in order to preserve
their rights.

Page249of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.With respect to sanctions, the law hardens the obligation of businesses to cooperate with investigations by
increasing the amount of sanctions in the event of obstruction, increasing the penalties of imprisonment
from six months to two years, and fines from €7,500 to €300,000. It should be recalled that agents can also
impose other sanctions, whether for obstruction (1 per cent of the total turnover of the business), refusal to
respond to a request for information or to a convocation (injunctions up to 5 per cent of daily average
turnover for each day of delay) or insulting behaviour (6 months' imprisonment and €7,500 of fines).

New powers of injunctions and administrative sanctions

In the event of violation of the rules on price transparency, restrictive practices or other prohibited practices
(Title IV of Book IV of the French Commercial Code), the Hamon Law grants the officials of the Ministry of
the Economy a new power of injunction enabling them to require a business to comply with its obligations,
to cease any illegal activity or to eliminate any illicit clause. In addition, in the event of refusal to comply
with such an injunction, the administrative authority charged with competition and consumer affairs can
impose an administrative fine of up to €3,000 for physical persons or €15,000 for legal entities.

Some new aspects of distribution law

Sanction of maximum payment terms

Thirteen years after the introduction of maximum payment terms of 45 days from the end of the month or
60 calendar days to article L. 441-6 of the French Commercial Code by the Law on New Economic
Regulations (NRE Law), the Hamon Law deals with the absence of any specific sanction in the event of
non-compliance with these terms. This is a particularly important change given that in practice, the
DGCCRF considers that such maximum payment terms have extraterritorial effect.

From now on, the violation of such maximum payment terms, and the fact of non-compliance with the rules
stating the manner in which such terms are calculated (they run from the date on which the invoice is
issued), will be subject to an administrative fine which can go as high as €75,000 for physical persons or
€375,000 for legal entities, doubled in the event of repeated non-compliance within two years from the date
on which the initial decision to impose sanctions becomes final. In the absence of precision in the law, it
can be feared that each individual late payment can give rise to a sanction, even when the payments result
from the same contract. This new sanction can therefore result in extremely heavy fines for the purchaser,
and even for the supplier.

The same sanction applies in the event of a clause or a practice which aims at abusively delaying the
starting point of the maximum payment terms.

It should be recalled that up to now, violation of the maximum payment terms could only result in damages
based on article L.442-6 I 7° and/or a civil fine based on article L.442-6 III. The Hamon Law having
eliminated the first of such provisions, these sanctions are no longer applicable.

On the other hand, due to poor drafting, the violation of such maximum payment terms is now sanctioned
more severely than non-compliance with the provisions relating to the standard payment term of 30 days
following delivery (applicable in the absence of clauses on payment terms), the payment term in matters of
transport, and late payment penalties (article L.441-6 paragraphs 8, 11 and 12), which are still subject to
the sanctions of €15,000 provided for in the last paragraph of article L.441-6 I. The Constitutional Council
noted that, as this paragraph had not been abrogated by the Hamon Law (which is probably the result of
an error), it was not possible to provide a double sanction for the same facts. Therefore, although initially
conceived as a uniform sanction for violations of article L.441-6 paragraphs 8, 9, 11 and 12, the new fine of
€75,000 / 375,000 is finally applicable only to violations of the maximum payment terms of 45 days from
the end of the month or 60 calendar days of paragraph 9.

It should be noted that these new provisions apply immediately, which requires businesses to modify, as
necessary, their practices quickly in order to be compliant.
Reinforced rules on commercial negotiation

Probably in order to thwart the use of general purchasing conditions or standard contracts which are still
widely used in business by large distribution networks and purchasing divisions of large businesses, the
Hamon Law places general sales conditions and price grids of the supplier at the heart of commercial
negotiations by modifying articles L.441-6 and L.441-7 of the French Commercial Code.

The formalism of the so-called "single agreement" (which is aimed at accumulating all relevant terms and
conditions agreed between the parties in a single document) (article L.441-7) is further reinforced in order
to include rebates and other kinds of discounts negotiated by the purchaser in exchange for services
rendered to the supplier. The purchaser must henceforth precisely justify performance in conformity with
the agreement in the event of a written request of the supplier who, as necessary, may petition the

Page250of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.administrative authority charged with competition and consumer affairs. In addition, any violation of the
obligations relating to the "single agreement" can result in an administrative sanction of €75,000 for
physical persons or €375,000 for legal entitles, doubled in the event of repeated offences within two years
from the date on which the initial decision imposing sanctions became final.

Moreover, the list of practices prohibited by article L. 442-6 has been modified, particularly by insertion in
paragraph 1 of a new example of an advantage which does not correspond to any commercial service
actually rendered or manifestly disproportionate ("additional request, in the course of performance of the
agreement, aiming at abusively maintaining or increasing margins or profitability"), and the addition of a
new paragraph relating specifically to abusive actions of purchasers with respect to pricing.

The modifications to articles L.441-7 and L.442-6 I are however only applicable to contracts concluded
after 1 July 2014.

Conclusion

Despite its title, the "consumer law" goes far beyond the mere framework of relations between businesses
and consumers and introduces new provisions with respect to competition and distribution law. Although
the class action is probably the most significant new development, the impact of other provisions which on
their face may seem harmless and which reinforce the investigatory powers of competition authorities and
increase the potential liability of businesses in many respects by adding a new arsenal of sanctions should
not be underestimated.

Footnotes

1 LOI n° 2014-344 du 17 mars 2014 relative à la consommation

Ms Mélanie Thill-Thayara

Norton Rose Fulbright Australia

Level 18

Grosvenor Place

225 George St

Sydney

2000

AUSTRALIA

Tel: 29330 8000

Fax: 293308000

E-mail: clair.simpson@nortonrosefulbright.com

URL: www.nortonrosefulbright.com/

Click Here for related articles

(c) Mondaq Ltd, 2014 - Tel. +44 (0)20 8544 8300 - http://www.mondaq.com

CO offair : Competition and Markets Authority | nortrb : Norton Rose Fulbright LLP
IN
NS ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c34 : Anti-Competition Issues | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva

i835 : Legal Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services

Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter

RE austr : Australia | fra : France | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | eecz : European Union

Countries | eurz : Europe | medz : Mediterranean | weurz : Western Europe

IPD nti-trust/Competition Law
PUB Mondaq Limited
AN Document BBPUB00020140817ea8h0005n

Page251of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.