Port of Newcastle sale a tale of hot market

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Port of Newcastle sale a tale of hot market

Tony Boyd
926 words
1 May 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
51
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Chanticleer
The NSW government's sale of a 98-year lease on the Port of Newcastle for $1.75 billion is a telling
reminder that the infrastructure asset market is so hot that even risky, commodity-linked assets can
achieve record prices. Port of Newcastle was sold by Treasurer Andrew Constance to a consortium
comprising Hastings Funds Management and China Merchants Group, a state-owned enterprise that
already owns 22 ports in China. The winning bidder paid 27 times earnings.

The craving for Australian infrastructure assets is partly bound up with the shifting sands in global
interest rate markets and the strategic positioning by specialist asset managers and owners.

Low global interest rates have direct and indirect ways of fuelling the high prices paid for assets such
as Port of Newcastle.

First, low interest rates are forcing pension and sovereign wealth funds to reconsider their asset
allocation decisions. Money is being shifted out of fixed interest funds into long-lived infrastructure
assets, which have many of the characteristics of bonds.

Marginal changes in asset allocation can have a powerful impact on money flows across asset classes
when the funds under management are in excess of $100 billion, which is the case for several
Canadian pension funds.

Second, the low interest rate environment allows buyers to inject greater leverage into the transaction.
They can borrow more money than would normally be possible and this allows a successful buyer such
as Hastings and China Merchants to tolerate a lower internal rate of return.

However, this cyclical sweet spot for infrastructure sellers will inevitably change as interest rates rise.
Australia, which has a record low official cash rate of 2.5 per cent, will probably see rates rise closer to
the nominal GDP growth rate of 4 per cent.

Rates are also going to rise in the United States when it ends its quantitative easing. A return to more
normal monetary conditions in the US will make it harder to justify debt-fuelled bids with internal rates
of return in single digits.

Specialist strategic buyers from around the world have been queuing up to take advantage of the
once-in-a-lifetime opportunity presented by state government asset sales.

Last week, Abertis Infrastructure from Spain failed in its bid for Queensland Motorways Ltd, which was
sold by the government-controlled Queensland Investment Corp for $7 billion to a consortium led by
Transurban .

However, the QML deal was the classic GDP-type infrastructure asset which provides the buyer with
direct exposure to economic growth in south-east Queensland.

Page179of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The China Merchants purchase of Port of Newcastle in partnership with Hastings is a far more risky
proposition than the QML deal.
The buyers are exposed to the fortunes of the Australian coal export market. On the one hand that
insulates the buyers from the Australian economy but at the same time it exposes the port owners to
the vagaries of the commodity price cycle.
While Newcastle is the world's largest coal port, the coal is sourced from the higher cost Hunter Valley
region which produces thermal coal of a lower grade to that found in the Bowen Basin in Queensland.
The NSW government was advised on the Port of Newcastle sale by Richard Wagner from Morgan
Stanley . He is likely to be in demand from other governments selling port assets.

Queensland has several ports that can be sold. However, the largest of them all is the Port of
Melbourne which could crack the $7 billion sale price for QML. Investment bankers are turning their
attention to other assets likely to be sold over the next three years including the $40 billion worth of
utilities in NSW, utilities in other states, ports in WA and a desalination plant in South Australia.
Constance's next challenge is to formulate a plan for selling the electricity poles and wires in NSW.
That will have to wait until after the next election in March 2015.

Those who accuse the big banks of suffocating the entrepreneurial talent in their funds management
businesses should take a closer look at the performance of Emilio Gonzalez , chief executive of BT
Investment Management.
Gonzalez has transformed the BTIM business from a domestically focused company with 65 per cent
of its revenues from Australian equities funds into a global business with sales in Australia, the United
Kingdom, Asia and the United States.

Four years ago BTIM only managed money in Australia. Three years ago it added the UK to the list,
with the purchase of J O Hambro.

It then expanded last year into Asia and this year expanded into the US.

This is a success story that has delivered in spades for shareholders. Since the global financial crisis
BTIM's shares have risen from about $3 to $6.70. The stock hit a record high of $7.35 in March.

The beauty of the funds management business model is that it is capital light, it can be exported
around the world (provided the company offers global products), its costs are relatively stable and it
can buy teams of committed funds managers who want to share in the upside.
BTIM's costs rose by $6.9 million over the past two years. Over the same period, revenue rose from
$91 million to $255 million.

Gonzalez is a big supporter of the Asian funds passport, which has the potential to open up new
markets in Korea, Taiwan and Singapore.

tony.boyd@afr.com.au Twitter @TonyBoydAFR

Tony Boyd

CO
IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

hasfml : Hastings Funds Management Limited | wstpac : Westpac Banking Corporation Limited
i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150211 : Unit Trusts/Mutual Funds | ifinal : Financial
Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
ceffic : Corporate Restructuring | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c11 : Plans/Strategy
austr : Australia | china : China | nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz
: Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140430ea510001b

Page180of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.