Invesco on hunt for more deals

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Invesco on hunt for more deals

BEN WILMOT, KYLAR LOUSSIKIAN, FUNDS
484 words
11 November 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
23
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

US funds management giant Invesco Real Estate is expanding its remit in Australia and has emerged
as a major conduit for local institutions investing in international markets.
The group, almost unknown in Australia several years ago, has forged into prime office markets ahead
of a compression of yields and is now on the hunt for top-class industrial estates. The group is thought
to have emerged as the top contender for a Kmart distribution centre in Melbourne’s Laverton being
sold by Goodman Group through Colliers International and JLL, for about $100 million.

Invesco is also continuing to scout out residential developments to back following its investment in
Grocon’s $290m Swanston Square Apartments in Melbourne, alongside CLSA Capital Partners .

Invesco has emerged as one of the prime capital exporters with about $800m pumped into US and
European markets on behalf of Australian superannuation funds.
On a recent visit to Sydney, Invesco Real Estate managing director, head of investment services,
Asia-Pacific, Takuya Yamada, said: “In terms of activities in the last few years, Australia has been a
very important market, very large.
“What we’ve been focusing on in the last year is core property. Tokyo and Sydney and Melbourne,
we’ve been very busy in those larger cities.” This has been borne out in a series of major office tower
purchases, with two Melbourne towers bought from Cromwell Property Group , and the group acting
for China’s CIC in the purchase of Sydney’s Centennial Plaza.
Invesco ’s Australian Real Estate head, Ian Schilling, noted that the group had invested across the
entire risk spectrum, though the focus in office towers has been on high-quality assets.
“They are all core deals,” he said, noting the strength of the group’s reputation. “From a track record
point of view when we’re bidding on something else it builds faith.” Invesco has been seeking new
mandates and developing new products, with Australian property on the menu. Mr Yamada said the
majority of clients had held separate accounts but the funds business had also grown. “So the capital
which we’d bring to Australia is mixed ... we have different types of capital, some looking for core,
others looking for very opportunistic investments,” he said.
Mr Yamada noted the attraction of returns from local property in a regional context, though he was
cautious about Australia’s higher interest rates.“Looking at absolute numbers in Australia cap rates for
A class are between 5.5 per cent and 6 per cent. In Tokyo, for similar class assets, cap rates are 3-4
per cent and in the US between 4 per cent and 5 per cent, so on an absolute number basis Australia
has higher cap rates. But on the spreads between the risk free rates, I think Japan has a higher rate.”

CO
IN

citich : Citic Securities Company Limited | magmgp : Goodman Group | citic : CITIC Group
i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150206 : Investment Trusts/Funds | i815020602 : Real
Estate Investment Trusts | i831 : Financial Investments | i83102 : Security Brokering/Dealing | icre :
Real Estate/Construction | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities | ireest : Real Estate

Page126of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS
RE

PUB
AN

ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | sydney : Sydney | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific
| ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South Wales
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141110eabb0000s

Page127of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.