Healthscope banks take valuation to Asian investors

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Market Wrap - Street Talk
Healthscope banks take valuation to Asian investors

Edited by Sarah Thompson, Anthony Macdonald and Gretchen Friemann
446 words
5 March 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
16
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

The keenly watched Healthscope roadshow rolls into Hong Kong this week as the healthcare giant,
owned by buyout firms The Carlyle Group and TPG, sounds out prospective investors about a mooted
$4 billion float.

Street Talk understands those institutions identified as long-term holders of the stock will be handed
indicative figures for an initial public offering during the current round of meetings.

While a sale into public ownership remains one of two exit options for the private equity owners, the
lead banks are likely to need comfort that such a large-scale raise can be underwritten.

It is assumed by many in the market that TPG and Carlyle will demand this level of support from their
global advisers, Macquarie and UBS.

However, some investors are already questioning whether Healthscope can attain multiples similar to
those of Ramsay Health Care, its listed arch-rival which has a market capitalisation of $9.6 billion.
The two companies dominate Australia's private hospital sector and Ramsay's strong interim results
triggered another rally in the stock as investors took heart at long-term fundamentals of an ageing
population and dwindling investment in public hospitals.

Goldman Sachs, which has a "neutral" rating on Ramsay, calculates earnings-per-share growth will be
in the double-digit range for the next six years as the private hospital operators benefit from these
factors.

But while few doubt the long-term prospects, investors are still preparing for tough negotiations on
price.

Ramsay currently trades on a multiple of 25.2 times to its 2015 projected earnings. Some in the
market doubt whether Healthscope can achieve these levels and investors are beginning to tire of
vendors looking for the upside in a stock upfront.

In this case there is also the lingering memory of the debacle at Myer, which is yet to trade at its issue
price after TPG exited the retailer in 2010.

However, health stocks – as the barnstorming debut of in-vitro fertilisation group Virtus Health has
evidenced – are in high demand.
Healthscope also stands to make a killing on its property. UBS is probing the options on a sale of the
company's $1.2 billion portfolio and it's understood a number of heavyweight investors have already
shown interest in the assets. The hospitals will most likely be shunted into an unlisted vehicle with the
backing of sovereign wealth funds of specialist health sector investors.

Alternatively, the portfolio could be bought and managed by one of the big listed property trusts and
managers, such as Lend Lease or GPT Group.

Page172of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CO

IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

crlylg : The Carlyle Group | hesco : Healthscope Ltd | ramhop : Ramsay Health Care Ltd | tpgpar :
TPG, Inc.
i951 : Health Care/Life Sciences | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150203 : Private Equity
| i95107 : Hospital Care | ialtinv : Alternative Investments | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv :
Investing/Securities | iphhp : Healthcare Provision
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140304ea350000b

Page173of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.