DLA Piper advises Tawa on significant reorganisation of operations

HD DLA Piper advises Tawa on significant reorganisation of operations
WC 1,332 words
PD
8 April 2014
SN
News Bites - Private Companies
SC
NBPRCO
LA
English
CY
Copyright 2014. News Bites Pty Ltd.
LP

NEWS BITES - PRIVATE COMPANIES
[Company Release]

TD

DLA Piper has advised AIM listed Tawa plc, renamed Pro Global Insurance Solutions plc ("PLC"), on the
significant reorganisation of its operations culminating in the demerger of its risk carrier business.

DLA Piper has advised AIM listed Tawa plc, renamed Pro Global Insurance Solutions plc ("PLC"), on the
significant reorganisation of its operations culminating in the demerger of its risk carrier business.

The PLC group is a specialised investor in the insurance industry acquiring risk carriers in the run-off
sector and more recently expanding into the service sector. Over the past eighteen months, DLA Piper
has worked with PLC to evaluate the best options for maximising shareholder value. Following this
strategic review, it was announced in December 2013 that PLC would demerge its business into two
distinct groups. The objective of the demerger was for PLC to become a pure play quoted services
business and the risk carrier business to be transferred to its wholly-owned subsidiary, Tawa Associates
Ltd ("TAL"), an unquoted company.

DLA Piper advised a three stage structure involving an internal reorganisation pursuant to which Tawa's
risk carrier business was transferred to TAL; a court approved capital reduction to create distributable
reserves; and a dividend in specie of the shares in TAL to Tawa plc's ultimate shareholders.

The demerger was bespoke in nature as it did not involve listing the demerged entity, resulting in
shareholders holding shares in two distinct legal entities, one which was publically listed and one which
was unlisted. DLA Piper worked with the parties to address the difficulties that some shareholders
encountered with respect to holding unlisted securities. This resulted in a share exchange offer being
established by Financiere Pinault, the majority shareholder of Tawa plc, whereby qualifying TAL
shareholders have the opportunity to exchange some or all of the TAL shares for PLC shares held by
Financiere Pinault.
The DLA Piper core team comprised lead partner Prakash (PK) Paran partners Alex Tamlyn, Andrew
Smith and Gunne Baehr, counsel Melanie James, senior associates Caroline Grange-Fielder, Tim
Baumgartner, Phillip Williams and Chris Godwin, and associate Mitesh Kunvarji.

Gilles Erulin, CEO of TAL (previously CEO of PLC), commented: "This demerger of more than half of the
assets of our listed company, with a number of regulated businesses, was an extremely complex project
requiring a diverse range of legal expertise including corporate and regulatory law and deep insurance
sector knowledge. The DLA Piper team brought all of that to the table and we completed on time, on plan
and on budget in spite of the usual unexpected bumps. As the team is experienced in working with
insurance clients, they do not have to learn on the job. They are able to include our specificities, including
regulatory matters, as an integral part of their thinking. We also like the fact that they are highly
responsive, knowledgeable and user friendly."

Click here for the full original announcement
COMPANY BACKGROUND

ACTIVITIES
DLA provides legal advisory services. The firm's areas of practice include corporate, banking, litigation,
property and construction, human resources, insurance, shipping, intellectual property, and transport. The

Page104of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.firm is headquartered in London, United Kingdom with additional offices in Belgium, Denmark, France,
Germany, Hong Kong, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, and Russia.

BUSINESS NEWS ROUND UP

07 April 2014: DLA Piper appoints Employment partner Brett Feltham
[Company Release] DLA Piper has appointed Brett Feltham as a partner in the firm's Employment group.
He commences in the firm's Sydney office on 7 April 2014. DLA Piper has appointed Brett Feltham as a
partner in the firm's Employment group. He commences in the firm's Sydney office on 7 April 2014. Brett
was previously a partner at Hunt & Hunt and before then led PricewaterhouseCoopers' Employment and
Workplace Relations team. A highly respected employment lawyer with broad ranging experience in
workplace relations, discrimination and work health and safety issues, Brett specialises in cross-border
employment arrangements and the employment and securities law aspects of executive remuneration and
employee equity and cash incentive arrangements.

Click here for the full original announcement

04 April 2014: DLA Group: Eten project bond named "Project Finance Deal of the Year" by International
Financial Law Review
[Company Release] Planta de Reserva Fria de Generacion de Eten S.A., a Peru-based power generation
company, received the "Deal of the Year" award in the Project Finance category from International
Financial Law Review. DLA Piper advised BTG Pactual as arranger and placement agent of the US$132.8
million project bond offering by Eten to finance a 20-year concession to build, develop, operate and
maintain a new thermal cold reserve power plant, transmission line and related infrastructure in the Reque
district in the province of Chiclayo, Peru. Last month, the Eten transaction was also recognized as "Latin
American Project Bond Deal of the Year" and "Overall Latin American Deal of the Year" by Project
Finance Magazine.

Click here for the full original announcement

02 April 2014: DLA Piper launches leadership alliance for women in Australia
[Company Release] DLA Piper launches its global Leadership Alliance for Women (LAW) program in
Australia this month, with inaugural events being held in Sydney and Perth as part of a global initiative to
provide current and future leaders with opportunities to build valuable business connections, develop client
relationships and strengthen leadership skills for future success. DLA Piper launches its global Leadership
Alliance for Women (LAW) program in Australia this month, with inaugural events being held in Sydney
and Perth as part of a global initiative to provide current and future leaders with opportunities to build
valuable business connections, develop client relationships and strengthen leadership skills for future
success. "Meet the leaders: Inspiring women in business' marks the official LAW launch in Sydney on
Wednesday 9 April.

Click here for the full original announcement

01 April 2014: DLA Piper recognized as a technology "Powerhouse" by BTI Consulting Group
[Company Release] DLA Piper is pleased to announce that the firm has been recognized as a technology
"Powerhouse" by the BTI Consulting Group in its newly published 2014 BTI Client Relationship Scorecard.
DLA Piper is pleased to announce that the firm has been recognized as a technology "Powerhouse" by
the BTI Consulting Group in its newly published 2014 BTI Client Relationship Scorecard. BTI also ranked
DLA Piper number 20 out of 650 law firms serving large clients for having the best client relationships,
placing the firm on the "Power Elite" list. Between March and July 2013, BTI conducted interviews with
300 corporate counsel at large and Fortune 1000 companies about what law firm activities drive superior
client relationships.

Click here for the full original announcement
01 April 2014: DLA Piper plays lead role advising on the Mersey Gateway project
[Company Release] DLA Piper has advised Halton Borough Council on the Pound600 million Mersey
Gateway Project, a major scheme to build a new six-lane toll bridge over the Mersey between Runcorn
and Widnes. DLA Piper has advised Halton Borough Council on the Pound600 million Mersey Gateway
Project, a major scheme to build a new six-lane toll bridge over the Mersey between Runcorn and Widnes.
One of the leading project finance mandates in the UK at present, the DLA Piper team advised on the
procurement of a private sector partner for the design, build, financing, operation and maintenance of the
new 1 km long cable-stayed bridge over the River Mersey and tolling of the crossings. This major project

Page105of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.saw the team provide advice on planning, land acquisition, compulsory purchase orders, tolling,
legislative frameworks and the implementation of new legislation, as well as providing strategic advice on
the procurement process, structural approaches and bespoke documentation for the bridge. The
multi-disciplinary DLA Piper team comprised lawyers from the firm's Finance & Projects, IPT, Real Estate
and Employment groups across its Manchester, Liverpool, Leeds and London offices.

Click here for the full original announcement

CO diblup : DLA Piper | tawaul : Pro Global Insurance Solutions PLC
IN

i82 : Insurance | i82003 : Non-life Insurance | i835 : Legal Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services |
ifinal : Financial Services
cspin : Spin-offs | c1521 : Analyst Comments/Recommendations | c1522 : Share Price
Movement/Disruptions | ceffic : Corporate Process Redesign | npress : Press Releases | c11 :
Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce :
FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
sydney : Sydney | uk : United Kingdom | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
| eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | nswals : New South Wales | weurz : Western Europe

NS

RE

IPD ACTIVITIES; BUSINESS NEWS ROUND UP
PUB News Bites Pty Ltd (Europe)
AN Document NBPRCO0020140408ea480002u

Page106of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.