$70M ROLL OF THE DICE

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
$70M ROLL OF THE DICE

Liam Walsh
376 words
24 January 2014
The Courier-Mail
COUMAI
CourierMail
30
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

TOURISM OPERATOR’S BIG PLAY FOR TOWNSVILLE CASINO

A NEW player in the Australian casino market could emerge as owner of Townsville’s gaming venue
next week, although one expert warns buyers will be taking a risk.

The 20-table, 320-gaming machine casino, Jupiter’s Townsville, is owned by Echo Entertainment.
Echo late last year revealed it was aiming to sell the tourist drawcard, with a murmured $75 million
price tag.

Sources with knowledge of the transaction yesterday confirmed reports a deal could be sealed next
week for about $70 million.

The potential buyer was also rumoured to be a domestic entity with an understanding of high-end
tourism, but not any existing casino operation.

Yet industry chatter tossed in other names yesterday, including New Zealand’s SkyCity, which has
Adelaide and Darwin casinos, Singapore-listed Lasseters International, with an Alice Springs casino,
or interests linked to Hong Kong tycoon Tony Fung, who is behind a move on Cairns’ casino.

Echo declined to comment on the buyer.
However, the sale’s reasons were flagged in November by chief executive John Redmond, who said
“the size and breadth of appeal of the Townsville market means more limited opportunity for the
creation of a large-scale integrated resort”.
Echo has been focusing on Brisbane and Gold Coast markets.

Mr Redmond in November also said Townsville had posted a “positive performance”. But trends have
been tough. Echo’s latest results bunched Jupiters’ Gold Coast and Townsville operations, showing
earnings for the two had fallen from $59.2 million in 2012 to $25.5 million in 2013. Gold Coast is
understood to account for a large chunk of earnings.

Dr Sudhir Kale, of GamePlan Consultants and Bond University’s business faculty, said Townsville
was constrained by its market potential, as it did not have substantial food and beverage earnings,
nor VIP gaming, plus it was known as attracting “the grind market” where people bet in smaller sums.

It would be a “gamble” for whoever bought the casino, he said. A new buyer would need to do
something meaningful to change the appeal, he said, such as a more upscale hotel, restaurants or
gaming.“They need some unique selling point,” he said.

NS

gcat : Political/General News

Page264of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document COUMAI0020140123ea1o000cz

Page265of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.