In their cups, miners talk up big asset sales

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
In their cups, miners talk up big asset sales

PAUL GARVEY, Resources
842 words
7 August 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
18
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

IT’S long been said that the juiciest stories out of Diggers & Dealers come not from the procession of
speakers at the conference podium, but instead from the Hannan Street bars packed full of delegates
each night (and often well into the next morning).

This year was no different. If the chatter doing the rounds in the bars of the Palace and Exchange hotels
is anything to go by, we should be standing by for a flow of deals in the months ahead.

While Kalgoorlie’s infamous skimpies went about their business behind the bar — this year’s collection
of scantily clad barmaids were apparently flown in from the Gold Coast specially for the event — much
of the talk focused on the big asset sales said to be in the works.

The sales process around BHP Billiton’s Nickel West smelter, just down the road from the action in
Kalgoorlie, was a subject of significant gossip.

Despite reports Glencore had walked away from the process, there was talk the Swiss giant was in fact
still in the fray albeit frustrated by BHP’s approach to the sale. Private equity group Apollo Global
Management is understood to have its offer for the assets knocked back, while China’s Jinchuan is still
very much in the running.

One view was that Jinchuan may partner with nickel miner Panoramic Resources, with whom it has
forged a strong relationship over several years.

Panoramic managing director Peter Harold gave a curt “no comment” when asked about the situation.
Also subject to much conjecture was the Koolyanobbing iron ore mine of US group Cliffs Natural
Resources. A recent board challenge was won by a ticket advocating the sale of its non-US assets, with
Koolyanobbing flagged as a likely asset for sale.
Cashed-up iron ore miner Mineral Resources, fresh from its spurned $1.4 billion offer for Aquila
Resources, has the appetite for a bid. And Chinese groups may see an opportunity to reverse their
habit of buying early-stage iron ore assets that have ultimately proved difficult to develop and instead
snap up an existing mine with a certain, if limited, production profile.
Iron ore duo Mt Gibson and BC Iron have swollen bank accounts but both are unlikely to be in the
running for Koolyanobbing given its projected mine life of just six years does nothing to address their
own longer-term production concerns.

No one in Kalgoorlie seems to expect the new Cliffs board will be able to reap anything like the $1
billion-plus price tag they have been touting, with bids likely to come in at less than half that.
The bar-room scuttlebutt also suggested a renewed appetite among smaller players to explore M&A
opportunities. The successful acquisitions in the past year by companies such as Bill Beament’s
Northern Star Resources appears to have emboldened boards who had previously preferred to focus on
their existing assets.

Page25of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Sandfire Resources is believed to be looking far and wide for its next project, having comfortably
ramped up its DeGrussa copper mine, while gold producers Evolution Mining — which was buying
goldmines before Mr Beament made it cool again — and Regis Resources both publicly flagged their
preparedness to purchase new assets.

Independence Group, under newly appointed managing director Peter Bradford, also made it clear the
group was looking for a new project to develop.
Independence owns a stake in the Tropicana goldmine, which came into production last year, as well
as the Long nickel mine and the Jaguar base metals mine. Mr Bradford has the option to spend $200
million developing the Stockman zinc project in Victoria, but he told The Australian Independence
would be willing to spend that money on an acquisition if a project capable of generating better returns
than Stockman could be found.

With the major miners continuing to shed projects they no longer see as core to their business, Mr
Bradford flagged Independence would be interested in partnering with another acquisitively minded
group and bidding jointly for assets that would otherwise be out of their individual reach.

“The reality is, as (Evolution executive chairman) Jake Klein said the other day, he’s looked at a lot of
things that he didn’t like that he can afford, and a lot of things that he does like that he can’t afford.
Potentially there’s a scope to team up with someone else to acquire one of those better projects.” At the
smaller end, explorer Hot Chili made a splash when it announced a deal with Chilean heavyweight
CMP. The latter will take a 17.5 interest in Hot Chili’s Productora project and will have the right to buy
another 32.6 per cent for $US80 million, triggering a 22 per cent surge in Hot Chili’s share price.Just
how much of the M&A talk has merit, and how much was booze-filled bluster, should become more
apparent in the months ahead.

IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | i22472 : Precious Metals | i22 : Primary Metals | i224 :
Non-ferrous Metals | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
c182 : Asset Transactions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140806ea870003l

Page26of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.