Nick Goodway: Why the future is not so rosé in the world of wine

SE
HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Analysis & Features
Nick Goodway: Why the future is not so rosé in the world of wine

720 words
13 August 2014
00:28
London Evening Standard Online
NSONL
English
(c) 2014 Evening Standard Limited.

So a bid battle has broken out for Australia’s largest wine producer Treasury Wine Estates.
In the red corner is initial bidder US private-equity firmKKR alongside Rhône Capital. In the blue (or
should that be white) corner is rival private-equity firmTPG Capital.

Both have bid A$3.4 billion  (£1.9 billion) for the Australian business which owns such quaffable wine
labels as Lindeman’s, Rosemount and Wolf Blass.
Both bidders, it seems pretty clear, will, somewhat unusually for private-equity buyers, be aiming to
shrink rather than grow the business if they are successful.

The reasons for this seemingly bizarre strategy are quite simple. There is a global oversupply of cheap
drinking wine with the South Americans more than giving the Australians a run for their money over the
past few years. Quality has been rising while prices have stayed flat.
On the fine wine front my own experience tells the tale.
Way back in 1988 I bought a case of Penfolds Grange Hermitage 1980 (Bin 95). It was sold to me by a
persuasive Frenchman in the Shepherd’s Bush branch of Majestic at, for what then seemed to me a
pricey £19.99 a bottle. But a Frenchman recommending a wine from the New World was then quite a
rarity.

He suggested it would not really be drinking until the turn of the century. I took that advice and broached
the first bottle in May 2000. It was well worth the wait.
In the meantime I have monitored the price of the wine as the vineyard changed hands from SABMiller
to Foster’s and eventually to Treasury. It touched a peak of just under £1000 a bottle but has now come
back to around £350 a bottle. A fine investment if I had not drunk all but the last two bottles by now.

Just like Treasury and the major French chateaux I have been hit mainly by the clampdown on bribery
and corruption among Chinese businessmen and officials. The bottom has fallen out of what was an
overdone market.

Unlike Treasury I do not have to suffer massive financial writedowns on the prices it paid for wineries
purchased in the past. Nor do I have to worry about how I am going to sell hectolitres of less fine
cabernets and sauvignons in the future.

Whether KKR or TPG walks away with the spoils, the victor is going to have to do some major work on
the business and the brands. It is one of the oldest lessons in business. It is better to make money
from selling less for more than to simply pile the stuff high and sell it cheap.

It will be long and hard work and I suspect the bids may actually come down rather than go up before
the takeover is completed. Certainly at £1700 a case I have yet to be tempted to buy the most recently
released Grange 2010. Any more generous offers?

Fringe voters still finely balanced

Page118of239©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.I spent a thoroughly enjoyable couple of days at the Edinburgh Fringe last week and barely a word did I
hear in the pubs, bars and venues about the big question.

The independence referendum is barely a month away, yet it was way down the list of conversational
topics.

That may have something to do with the fact that the Fringe is majority performed and majority watched
by non-Scots. It may have something to do with the amount of alcohol consumed. Or it may just have
been the weather.

The vote still looks to close to call for sure but the “No” side appears to have the edge.

That may be good news both for Scotland and the rest of the UK. Rob Wood, economist at Berenberg,
has made a strong case for this.

Whichever way the vote goes, there will be more devolution of powers and, crucially, spending to
Edinburgh (all parties have promised that even in the event of a no victory). More local spending tends
to be more effective and overall better for the economy.

Whatever the result, there is no way the economic boost produced by the Fringe has little danger of
leaving Scotland’s capital.

CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

rhcap : Rhone Capital LLC | tpgpar : TPG, Inc. | trzwn : Treasury Wine Estates Ltd
i8150203 : Private Equity | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | ialtinv : Alternative Investments |
ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i426 : Wine | ialco
: Alcoholic Beverages/Drinks | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods
cacqu : Acquisitions | c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
scot : Scotland | austr : Australia | edinb : Edinburgh | uk : United Kingdom | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz
: Australia/Oceania | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe
Evening Standard Limited
Document NSONL00020140812ea8c002e8

Page119of239©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.