Aqualand scoops up site in Sydney's Lindfield

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Aqualand scoops up site in Sydney's Lindfield

Samantha Hutchinson
441 words
22 October 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
38
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Chinese-backed developer Aqualand has paid $27 million to private developer Anka Group for an
apartment and shopping centre development at Lindfield train station on Sydney's upper north shore.
The 3399-square-metre site, with DA approval for more than 100 apartments and a ground floor retail
complex, quietly changed hands in the first quarter of the year in an off-market deal.

Aqualand has in recent weeks started spruiking the development at 23-27 Lindfield Avenue on its
website of residential developments as having approval for 112 apartments and some 2379 square
metres of retail space. The site, sitting opposite the railway station in the well-heeled suburb of
Lindfield, will form an integral part of a broader town centre upgrade improving retail amenities and
the village atmosphere in the area.
"According to the plan, the supermarket IGA will station in the property after building completion," the
group added on the property description.
The sale comes as a surprise given that vendor Anka is an established developer with a number of
residential projects in the pipeline and recently completed.

Headed by the mother and son team of Vera and Alex Boyarsky, Anka most recently gained notoriety
through its $200 million Union at Balmain residential development in Rozelle, in Sydney's inner west,
which achieved a 100 per cent sales rate within weeks of launching in early 2013.
Before the Aqualand sale, Anka had enlisted the help of leading architects Crone Partners on a
concept plan for the mixed-use development.
The site sale to Aqualand has also created interest in the rest of Anka's portfolio, which includes
sought-after sites in Kings Cross and other residential locations close to transport nodes throughout
the city.
A company spokesperson confirmed the sale, but declined to comment further on the group's
development strategy. Company heads Vera and Alex Boyarsky were unable for comment.
For Aqualand, the transaction adds to a fast-growing portfolio that includes residential development
sites in Melrose Hill in Sydney, and in Perth.
The group paid $170 million in September for the former CSIRO headquarters in North Ryde from
Challenger Life Company, as revealed by The Australian Financial Review.

Aqualand has a pipeline of more than 1200 units in Australia and has spent more than $330 million in
the last two months on real estate.

Page289of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.In mid-August Aqualand paid about $135 million for a 4.85 hectare residential development site in
Sydney's north-west, in a deal brokered by Colliers. The site, zoned for mixed-use development,
could yield up to 1200 units.

IN
RE

PUB
AN

ireest : Real Estate | iretail : Retail | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | icre : Real Estate/Construction
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New
South Wales
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141021eaam0001v

Search Summary

Text

Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found
Timestamp

((chin* or hong kong)) and (
( (residential or site or commercial) and (casino resort or island or hotel or apartment
or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company or board or entitys) and
(transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) )
or
( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron or lead
or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or stake or
equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or firm or
company))
or
( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or equity
or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group or firm or
board) and (million* or billion* or B or M))
)
not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall Street
or Forex or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex)
and re=austr
01/09/2014 to 31/12/2014
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
2,847
28 August 2018 23:18

Page290of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.