A perilous paradise in Australia

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

PORTFOLIO
A perilous paradise in Australia

William Mellor
939 words
7 April 2014
Business Line (The Hindu)
BSNLNE
English
(c) 2014 The Hindu Business Line

While the Great Barrier Reef is never likely to offer returns on a par with, say, Manhattan, at current
prices, buyers might at least be able to get their money back Billionaire William Han perches at the
stern of Silver Fox II, his 20-meter powerboat, as it weaves through the kaleidoscopic coral
wonderland that is Australia’s Great Barrier Reef.

In these pristine tropical waters in 1954, then-27-year-old Queen Elizabeth II and her consort, Prince
Philip, escaped official duties to swim and spearfish during a six-month post-coronation world tour.
Sixty years on, the secluded headland off which Their Highnesses frolicked is part of Han’s kingdom.

“Welcome to my island!” he says, leaping onto a wooden jetty leading to a sandy shore. After paying
A$12 million ($10.9 million) for lovely Lindeman in 2012, the Chinese-Australian entrepreneur plans to
spend more than A$200 million building a luxury resort on the 8-sq km island, while keeping a prime
secluded site for his own vacation retreat.

“When you first see the Great Barrier Reef, it blows your breath,” he says in cheerfully fractured
English. “Buying Lindeman was a bargain. It took me 10 minutes to make up my mind.”
How much of a bargain is a source of debate within the cloistered world of private island sales.
Although the Great Barrier Reef is one of the planet’s most beautiful and precious places, it has a
perilous history.

Over the past 80 years, investors have poured billions into resorts, only to discover that the reef can
be as treacherous as it was in 1770 for British explorer James Cook, whose HMS Endeavour ran
aground near a spot he aptly named Cape Tribulation.

Iconic Islands
In the past three years, four of the most iconic islands, including Lindeman, have been sold for a total
of A$25 million — a fraction of their former valuations. Today, the most prominent property agents
are divided over whether the Great Barrier Reef market has finally bottomed out.

Farhad Vladi, founder of Vladi Private Islands GmbH, says, “In the past, the market was artificially
inflated by greedy real estate agents and overly romantic buyers. Only now, when we’re seeing forced
sales, is the true value revealed. I think prices will continue to go down.”
Hamilton Island
For one devotee, a A$500 million investment in a 7.4-sq km dot called Hamilton Island has fulfilled his
wildest island fantasies. Not only has billionaire Australian winemaker Robert Oatley, built what is
quite possibly Australia’s toniest resort, he’s also developed the lavishly appointed Hamilton Island
Yacht Club.

For numerous other investors, however, the music of waves lapping against coral turned out to be a
siren song — their dreams run aground by a disastrous combination of cyclones, unsympathetic
bankers, astronomical overheads, overcapitalisation, a soaring Australian dollar and competition from
cheaper Asia-Pacific resort locales such as Bali, Fiji and Phuket.

Page227of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Even rich foreigners eager to buy private islands find the distance formidable, according to broker
Krolow.

“Eighty per cent of buyers come from the US, Canada and Europe,” he says. “Simply getting them
here to show them what’s available is a challenge. The distance is insane.”

One of the tiniest of the islands has alone devoured at least A$150 million of investments by
successive owners over the past 20 years. Its name: Daydream. Vaughan Bullivant, Daydream’s
present owner, is a native New Zealander who sold his vitamin supplements business in 1999 for
A$135 million. He has spent A$75 million creating a 300-room resort with amenities ranging from an
elaborate spa to a wedding chapel.

‘Nightmare’

“Daydream became Vaughan’s nightmare,” Casey says. He has since succeeded in turning around
Daydream’s business.

The resort delivered a net profit of A$2 million on revenue of A$28 million for the fiscal year ended
June 30, 2013, and has no debt.

However, Bullivant wants out, and has been trying to sell for a fraction of the A$150 million
replacement value.

Although Casey won’t disclose the asking price, he says Bullivant recently turned down offers of more
than A$30 million.
When he does finally walk away with inevitably lighter pockets, Bullivant will be in illustrious company.

Even Rupert Murdoch, Australia’s most famous entrepreneur, managed to lose money on a Great
Barrier Reef investment in 1998, when a company he half-owned, sold Hayman Island for A$61
million, a fifth of the A$300 million it had splurged on the resort barely a decade earlier.

‘Half a chance’
While the Great Barrier Reef is never likely to offer property returns on a par with, say, Manhattan,
the current generation of island buyers might at least escape with their shirts, according to Ron de
Wit, founding partner of consultant AHS Advisory.

“When you spend the sort of money people used to pay, it’s very hard to get your money back,” de Wit
says. “But at these prices, you’ve got half a chance.”
Han and I trek to the island’s highest point. Down at sea level, the old Club Med resort is barely
visible. “Come back in two years, and you won’t recognize the place,” Han says. In surroundings like
this, it’s hard not to be optimistic.Bloomberg

Daydream to nightmare

Investors’ dreams have run aground with cyclones, astronomical overheads, and competition from
locales such as Bali, Fiji and Phuket

Fishing at the Reef

Once high, prices are now trending down

Selling at fraction of former valuations

NS

RE
PUB
AN

nedc : Commentaries/Opinions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E
Executive News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Kasturi & Sons Ltd
Document BSNLNE0020140407ea4700025

Page228of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.