Interim 2014 Westpac Banking Corp Earnings Conference Call - Final

HD Interim 2014 Westpac Banking Corp Earnings Conference Call - Final
WC 11,019 words
PD 4 May 2014
SN CQ FD Disclosure
SC FNDW
LA English
CY © 2014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.
LP

TD

Presentation
ANDREW BOWDEN, HEAD OF INVESTOR RELATIONS, WESTPAC GROUP: Well good morning
everyone and welcome to Westpac's First Half 2014 Result presentation. My name is Andrew Bowden and
I'm head of Westpac's investor relations. Today we'll follow the usual format of a presentation followed by
Q&A and presenting today of course is Gail Kelly, our CEO and our new CFO, Peter King. Without further
ado, let me invite Gail to the stage.

GAIL KELLY, MANAGING DIRECTOR AND CEO, WESTPAC GROUP: Thank you Andrew and good
morning everyone. Thanks very much for joining us for our interim results for 2014, First Half 2014. Let me
start by saying that we are really pleased with this result. We see it as a high quality result, a result that's
delivering for customers and for shareholders. We have a best in class balance sheet, all of our business
divisions are delivering good operating momentum, and we're executing well on our strategy. Just to have a
look at the numbers themselves starting with cash earnings per share, and as you can see over the prior
corresponding period, up 7% and over the prior period, up 6%. Our cash earnings number of AUD6.772
billion is also up 6% over the prior corresponding period, and it's good to see that alignment there which
shows the impact of not needing to issue shares into the DRP. That performance has been boosted of
course by a strong core earnings growth of 5%. Return on equity is a pleasing 16.5%, we have a very low
impairment charge to average loans of 12 basis points, and the expense to income ratio and our common
equity tier 1 ratio are indeed sector leading. From a dividend point of view, the directors have declared a
AUD0.90 dividend for the half, which is a AUD0.02 uplift on the prior half, really following our consistent
pattern over recent periods. Turning to the divisional contributions and here for the most part I'm going to
refer to the results relative to the prior period, so just having a look at the last six months in particular.
Starting with Australian Financial Services, which as you know, includes our Westpac RBB business, St
George and BT and a very good performance over the past months. Cash earnings up 6% over prior period
and core earnings up 4% over the prior period. When I think about our AFS division what I'm really pleased
about is this high level of alignment, coordination and sharing that actually happens across that business
unit as it's being managed and run as a portfolio. I'm also really pleased with the progress that we're
making between the WIB AFS partnership being co-led by Rob and by Brian and in this half we delivered
AUD292 million of revenue. Turning to Westpac RBB and when I think about this business unit over the
past several halves, you really think in terms of consistency and quality and discipline, and again another
performance of that order of this half. So cash earnings up 3% over the prior period, margins up 2 basis
points and expenses very well controlled. This is a business that's got good operating momentum going
into the second half, with an uplift, as you would have seen, in home lending. On St George, a very good
performance for the half. On cash earnings over prior period up 10%. Lloyds has contributed to that, but if
you exclude Lloyds, it's still up 8% over the prior half. All of the various brands within the St George Group
have actually contributed positively to its result. It's delivering at system growth for both mortgages as well
as retail deposits, its margins are up 2 basis points and a very strong performance from the credit line with
a reduction of impairments of 37% as we continue to see the runoff of stressed assets and repayments in
this business. Overall the franchise is in really good shape with customer numbers well up, and you'll see
that on a later slide. With regard BT, it's always best there to actually look at the results relative to the prior
corresponding period, due to seasonality in the wealth business. I must say the BT results this half are truly
outstanding. Cash earnings is up 21% on the prior corresponding period with revenue up 17%. Funds
under management are up 25%, funds under administration are up 12% and really strong performance in
Life as well, in all forms of insurance actually, both General and Life, with a good uplift in gross premiums
and a very stable loss rate over the period. In terms of Westpac Institutional Bank, looking at the prior
period, cash earnings are down 5%, but you can see from the slide here that we've had infrequent and
volatile items that have benefited the prior halves as noted on that slide. Now key amongst those is the one
that's been well flagged to you all which is the Hastings business, where we sold down the listed

Page76of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.infrastructure funds, delivered benefit obviously over those prior periods. The other one is CBA which
delivered a strong uplift in the second half of 2013, but is pretty well flat for this year -- for this first half. So if
you exclude those elements, overall cash earnings is up for the half 7% on the prior period. This is, as you
know, a very high quality customer-led franchise. We've been the lead institutional bank for some period,
and indeed the lead transactional bank for 10 years in a row. Customer revenues are up 2% and that's
notwithstanding quite a material decline in the margin again flagged in the past half, and I know Peter King
will give you more insight into the drivers of that margin decline in WIB. Of course I cannot leave off talking
about the Institutional Bank without mentioning the strength of its credit quality and you'll see in the
numbers again just an outstanding performance there. On Westpac New Zealand, the numbers here are
reflected in Australian dollars, up 17% on the prior period, in New Zealand dollars it would be up 8% over
the prior period. Peter Clare and his team have focused really hard on deposits over the last while, so over
the prior period a growth of 4% in deposits with the deposit to loan ratio now coming in at 77%, but also
above system growth in mortgages and in business lending in New Zealand. You'd see that margins are
down also in New Zealand, down 4 basis points, largely due to the competitive environment and also the
switching that customers are doing from variable rate mortgages to fixed rate mortgages. Lastly there too,
an improvement in credit quality with the runoff of stressed assets. You'd be well familiar with our strategic
priorities and it is certainly one of the themes of this result that we're executing well against them. The five
key elements ensuring that we remain strong, we're targeting our growth in particular sectors and
geographies. At the very heart of our strategy is depth of customer relationship that really underpins the
whole. In order to drive depth of customer relationship we have a very big focus on simplifying our
business, making it easier for our customers, making it easier for our employees, and lastly of course
pulling together as one team. The [construct] on the right-hand side of the slide also will be familiar to you,
where we focus on achieving the balance between the four elements of strength and return and productivity
and growth, understand the trade-offs between them and drive a sustainable result. You will recall me
saying at the November results presentation that on the basis of the overall strength of the business we'd
be tilting more to growth as we go into 2014, and I think we're managing that well. But let's first off start with
having a look at the strength, return and productivity dimensions here, and on strength our capital, our
common equity tier 1 ratio is a highlight for us, coming in at 8.82% for the half. As you can see, that's
above the equivalent half last year, the March half last year, we were 8.74% and I mentioned that because
between then and now we've paid two special dividends, as well as of course acquired the Lloyds
franchise, so really pleased with that outcome. Stressed assets to TCE continues to decline, a really strong
situation here and well lower than the 3.20% which was its peak in 2010. Return is a very good story for us,
a return on equity up at 16.5% and really tight careful management of our margin, just 1 basis point for the
period, 1 basis point reduced for the period. On productivity two measures here to look at, one is revenue
for FTE which is up 3% and the other is expense to income. So our 41.2% is almost 300 basis points lower
than the average of our peers. So turning then to growth and starting off with a discussion about lending
growth, and of course in that starting off with a discussion about mortgages which has been where the
activity's been over the course of the past half. Again, you'll remember in November of last year I indicated
that our goal was to work towards achieving system growth during the course of 2014 on mortgage growth,
but to do that in a sustainable way, to do that with the trade mark Westpac discipline and consistency. I'm
really happy with how Brian and his team in AFS have actually gone about this and you can see the uplift
from 0.7 times of system in the fourth quarter of last year to 0.8 times in the first quarter and now 0.9 times
in the second quarter. Brian and his team are aiming at achieving system growth for the second half of
2014. We've done that while maintaining really excellent credit quality, and indeed managing the margin
tightly and well and the margins in AFS were up 2 basis points over the half. Personal lending's been a
good story for us over this past half and two quarters of picking up market share in both personal lending
and in credit cards. The reason for this is a couple of things, firstly straightforward focus, really bringing in
good leadership into the area, bringing good disciplines into the area. We've also focus on simplifying the
product sets that we have in this area and focus on streamlining and simplifying the processes that
underpin our personal lending and credit card lending, with a reduction in complaints in both categories of
over 25%. So this is a good lift and I expect there'll be more to come. On Australian business, well it
remains a subdued environment, but having said that, we're pleased to see an uplift over the course of this
half, obviously assisted by Lloyds as well with its AUD5.1 billion of lending that we acquired at the end of
last year. This is very good -- well not very good, maybe I overstated, there's good uplift in new lending
coming through in business, but it is continuing to be largely offset, not completely offset but largely offset,
by the repayments of stressed assets and the natural repayment that occurs in that portfolio. But there are
some positive signs of a better uplift of new lending coming through within our Australian business portfolio.
In terms of growth in other targeted areas, well deposits is not a new area, we've spoken about that over
many halves in the past and it continues of course to be a focus for us. As we move and shift towards the
implementation of the new LCR rules which come into place from 1 January next year we paid a lot of
attention on the quality of our retail deposits. So household deposits has been a big area of focus for us
and I'm pleased to say over a 12 month period we've grown our household deposits over 10% -- that's the
sticky category within the classification of the LCR rules. I've mentioned the performance in our funds under
management, funds under administration and also insurance. Bank of Melbourne continues to achieve
above its goals actually so really pleased with the growth in household footings share in Victoria, so up to
4.5% of the overall footings growth there. If you look at mortgages we're about twice times Victorian system

Page77of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.over the last six months and retail deposits at two and a half times system over the last six months with
very good lift and pick up in new customer relationships and growth in customer numbers overall. In WIB
our trade volumes are up -- they're up 29% as you can see is off a relatively low base but good solid uplift
there. Just for a moment pause and talk about Asia, as you know that's also one of our targeted growth
areas ensuring that we can support our customers institutional, corporate, commercial, agri customers as
they are increasingly trading and investing in Asia. So we've steadily been setting about building new
capabilities, more people, enhancing our platforms in these arenas. I'm really pleased with the progress
that Rob and team have made over the course over the past six months indeed over the course of the past
two years. It was about this time a year ago where we were one of only two banks in Australia to be
awarded the market makers licence for the Aussie/Renminbi trade. I'm pleased to say a year down the
track we're the lead player in that particular trade, more than any of the Chinese banks or anyone else.
We've recently been awarded also only one of two banks -- Australian banks -- the market makers licence
for the Kiwi dollar and the Renminbi and obviously that's a business that we'll support very actively too.
We've been awarded to the derivative licences in both Beijing and Shanghai, one of the first Australian
banks to be given a licence to open our branch in the free trade zone next to Shanghai. So really pleased
with the performance that's occurring there. If you look at our uplift in revenues out of Asia again off a small
base but over this half over the prior period it's up 40% in US dollars. I mentioned that driving deep
customer relationships is at the very core of what we're about, it is the heart of our strategy and there are a
number of ways that we measure that. Obviously one of the critical ones playing directly to a competitive
advantage for us is driving additional wealth product through our own banking customers -- this dimension
of wealth penetration of our own customers. I think our model in AFS really supports this, the way Brad and
his team work so closely with Jason and George and their teams. You can see here that Westpac Retail
and Business Bank is the lead player in this particular area and indeed pushing away. St George is the
fastest pick-up -- fastest improvement in this area and in deed above two of our major bank peers. Turning
to capital -- well as you can see we really are pleased with the strength of our capital position coming in at
8.82%. We're moving towards and we're really well placed of course for the implementation of the D-SIB
which comes into place and 1 January, 2016. In the second half of this financial year we'll finalise a new
preferred target range in preparation for that new D-SIB regime that kicks in on 1 January, 2016. The
dividend decision has been a really easy one for us this half. So a AUD0.02 uplift in the dividend following
our usual pattern but because of the strength of our position and not needing to raise more capital, able to
immunise or neutralise the impact of the DRP for this half. You may recall that in November last year I
spoke about a very significant profound change that's occurring in the kinds of services and expectations
that customers have of their banks and their own changed behaviour and changed pattern. I mean in
March, Brian and the AFS team backed that up and spoke also of the very material changes that are going
on in the industry at the moment and they've spoken particular about the changes arising out of mobility
and arising through digital. Really from a Westpac point of view, we want to make sure that we are
proactive and that we're responsive and ahead of the game here. It's actually quite extraordinary to see the
race of adoption that's occurring with regards to the pickup of mobile and the use of mobile for
transactions and sale purposes. It's really worth reflecting that five years ago there were no smartphones
around, there were indeed no tablets around so quite an amazing rate of adoption, quite a significant
industry change that we're going through. All of our and so many of our customers now have our
smartphones, our tablets as such an integral and fundamental part of the way in which we go about our
lives, the way in which we engage with service providers. So we are determined to make sure that we lead
in this area of digital, in this area of innovations, area of simplification and new capabilities to meet the
needs of our customers as they change. Of course I won't go through this slide in all of its elements but
what it's here to do is to point to a number of key initiatives that we are underway with right now to
dramatically improve the customer experience. So just to name a couple, obviously as you know our online
Westpac live is being rolled out as we speak at the moment. We'll be rolled out to our two and half million
customers by the end of September this financial year. Similarly our new wealth platforms that we've called
BT Panorama, the first phase implementation our cash hub was released over the course of the past six
months. If you look at our branch reconfigurations we now have 34 Bank Now sites in place, Jason spoke
to that at his presentation in March. We have 61 of the St George version called Fresh Start and at
Business Connect the SME solution for St George we now have over 100 -- I think it's around 112 sites up
and running and operationalised and we're implementing a similar model within our Westpac business. If
you look at the targeted messages to customers in this last quarter alone, 16 million individuals targeted
messages to customers offering service or advice to support them in their needs. There's a brand new
merchant solution that we're rolling out or piloting, due to rollout very shortly with enhanced features for our
merchants. Much more simple in its design and look and feel and significantly improved processes -- on
boarding processes and day-to-day processes. Of course we continue to innovate in the area of contact us
payments both within St George and indeed within Westpac. So overall a very significant revolution is
underway here -- truly a service revolution for our customers across the Group. Let me finish then in terms
of summarising by saying we see this as a high quality result for the WestpacGroup and again another
consistent performance. We do have a very strong balance sheet, we're improving our growth in the areas
that we're targeting so pleased with the progress we've made there and good operating momentum in all
our divisions as we go into the second half and delivering value for our customers and our shareholders.
Now before I hand over to our new CFO Peter King, I'd just like to say two additional whereas -- (1) is a big

Page78of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.thank you to all of my team, the Board of General Management team and indeed the 36,000 employees in
the WestpacGroup including our new Lloyds employees that we brought on board during the course of the
period. These are remarkable people who bring so much of their discretionary effort to work every day. We
have very high levels of engagement as I know you'd be aware. There's a strong buzz in the organisation
as we head towards our 2017 200 year anniversary. I'd also especially like to acknowledge and to thank
Phil Coffey, so well-known to all of you here. Phil Coffey has been our CFO for eight years and you can
imagine for me what a privilege it's been to stand alongside Phil and represent the company in so many
different ways at these forums and in others. I'm really thrilled -- believe me I'm really thrilled that I continue
to stand alongside Phil and work with Phil in his new role of being the Deputy CEO so big thank you Phil. I'd
also like to acknowledge and welcome Peter King to his new role of CFO for the Group. Now I should tell
you that in all of my time that I've been in Westpac the power behind the numbers -- the driving force
behind the numbers has actually been Peter King. I'm probably setting him up here, but let me say there's
not much that he's not all over, there's not much that -- sorry for that Pete. Of course he's been Deputy
CFO before becoming CFO and so it's really been a seamless transition to his new role and Pete's bringing
in immense amount of advice and support to the executive team as a whole. So with that, may I hand to
you Pete.
PETER KING, CFO, WESTPAC GROUP: Good morning everyone. I thought I'd start today just by
acknowledging what a privilege it is to be appointed the Westpac CFO. Gail thank you for those kind words,
and Phil can I thank you for the support in the last eight years in particular. In preparing for today I looked
back at what Phil said six months ago and he highlighted seven areas, and without exception they've all
been very important in this result. This morning I'll target my comments towards areas that I think are most
of interest to you. So looking at the result as a whole it was a high quality performance. As Gail said all the
key metrics are moving in the right way, cash earnings up 6%, core earnings up 5% and ROE stronger. I
think also importantly as the chart highlights it hasn't been -- it's been a very consistent performance over a
number of periods and a feature of the result was also that all business units performed well either
delivering to or exceeding expectations. The Lloyds acquisition was also a highlight contributing AUD20
million of cash earnings in its first three months and that's right on target. Return on capital is one area I
spend some time on, and this table you've seen before it shows the movements in return on assets and
return on equity. The lift in ROE to 16.5% was a real positive in this result. It reflected a small improvement
in the return on asset and good use of capital. (Inaudible) flow capital through the acquisition of Lloyds
and via last year's special dividends and our decision to cease issuing shares for the DRP is also benefiting
here. As a result, leverage increased and contributed two thirds of the lift in ROE. On this slide I've
summarised features of the result. These are the areas that I thought would benefit from further discussion
and they also reflect questions we're often asked by the market. There are six topics that you can see here,
two of which are new and specifically they're the FX translation issue and also our transition to LCR. A
topical point in any result is Treasury and Markets. This half we saw improved performance in both as you
can see in the top chart customer related income improved. We saw solid growth over recent halves
reflecting our strong position in both foreign exchange and debt markets. As Gail said, the WIB/AFS
partnership was also a contributor here. Risk income, highlighted in the bottom chart, can be a bit more
variable. Treasury had a better performance up on last half but down on a very strong second half -- first
half of 2013. The better outcome reflected good management of interest rate positions and better returns
from the liquidity portfolio. Markets also performed well with a higher contribution from both FX and debt
markets, however a lower CVA adjustment more than offset this better performance. While risk income
carries some variability, it is more than compensated for by the very high ROEs. Turning to infrequent
items, these items did not have a big impact on cash earnings growth. They did however impact individual
line items, particularly expenses. Firstly, FX translation, this mostly related to the 7% appreciation in the
New Zealand dollar. This added AUD15 million to cash earnings. The impact was modest as the
translation benefits were mostly offset by hedging losses. Looking forward, our second half New Zealand
earnings are hedged at a similar rate to the first half, so you will not see much impact from translation in the
second half. On the right hand side, you can see infrequent and volatile items. Asset sales have been
relatively consistent over the last few halves, with the half including some sale of Visa shares. Performance
fees relate to asset management. I've included these as the revenue and expenses were large, particularly
this half, but the impact on cash earnings is modest. Divisional results were also impacted by these items.
This half saw most of the fees in BT, while in prior halves, they were in WIB and they were the Hastings exit
fees that Gail referred to. Finally, as I mentioned before, I've included the volatile CVA item. The change in
CVA had a large impact compared to the second half. So in summary, these items were not contributors to
cash earnings growth this half. Turning to funding. As we indicated last year, the heavy lifting is behind us.
Overall funding has been managed well. We've acquired Lloyds and absorbed a pickup in lending and our
stable funding ratio is unchanged from a year earlier. This half we focused more on optimising the funding
mix and preparing for the introduction of the LCR in nine months times. You can see this played out in the
composition of our stable funding ratio. The contribution from long term wholesale rose as we took
advantage of supportive global markets and lifted term funding by AUD8 billion. The customer deposit
contribution was lower. We continue to grow household deposits system as you can see, although business
deposits were down as we focused on the LCR value. One impact of repositioning for the LCR was the
competition for institutional working capital balances was high, and this had an impact on the WIB margin.

Page79of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The business is now well positioned as we approach the introduction of the LCR. Moving to margins, we
had a good outcome over the half, with margins down 1 basis point. Margins, excluding Treasury and
Markets were down five, although this was mostly offset by better Treasury performance. Looking at the
main drivers. Asset spreads were down 7 basis points, with 5 basis points due to mortgages in Australia
and New Zealand. Mortgage spend contraction reflected increased competition and the switch to lower
spread fixed rate loans. Improvement in the cost of funds offset most of this asset spread decline with
better deposit spreads and the benefit of Lloyds. Wholesale funding costs also reduced. Outcomes were
slightly different, as you can see in the bottom left chart here. So AFS reported a slightly higher margin, with
better deposit spreads and the benefit from Lloyds. These more than offset competitive pressure on
lending. In contrast, WIB experienced a decline, primarily due to an easing in credit spreads for highly rated
institutions. The mix impact of growing lower margin loans, particularly trade, and as I mentioned earlier,
competition for working capital deposits impacted margins. In New Zealand, they experienced margin
headwinds from a continued competitive environment, the rise in fixed rate mortgages and the rundown in
stressed assets. Putting these forces together, the margin outlook is relatively neutral, with competitive
pressure on lending offset by lower funding costs. Excluding Treasury and Markets, the exit margin was
similar to that recorded in the half. Moving now to expenses. They continue to be well managed. While the
headline growth appeared a bit high, when you remove the FX and Lloyds impacts, the rise was 1.6%. This
was a good outcome given the salary increases from the 1 January and the uplift in activity. Our operating
costs were well managed as productivity neutralised business' usual cost increases. The majority of the
1.6% increase was due to the investment program. Regulatory change continues to take up a large chunk
of the investment program, however nearly half of the investment was directed to growth and productivity,
which will drive future value. As you can see, productivity has generated AUD1.2 billion over the last five
years. This half productivity came from a large number of diverse initiatives with effects spread across the
Group. New Zealand is a good case in point and has been a productivity role model in the Group. New
Zealand's well advanced in the roll out of new digital technologies. The benefits of this program are now
emerging, including 25% of deposits now through smart ATMs, and 13% of home loans now originated
online. New Zealand costs were down 2% over the 12 months, reflecting this success. Looking forward,
there are still numerous opportunities on productivity. The Lloyds integration is on track and will deliver
around AUD70 million in run rate benefits. The move to digital will also be a key driver of productivity. But
in summary, expense management and productivity remain a key focus of the Group. Asset quality was
again a highlight. On almost any measure, we've seen an improvement. There's three call outs I'd like to
make. Firstly, on stressed exposures, they were down 23 basis points. Institutional business and corporate
were all lower. The number of companies in active workout fell 10% in the last six months. Secondly, we
continued to see a decline in new and increased impaired assets. This was common across all divisions
with a particularly large fall in New Zealand. Thirdly, on the consumer front, mortgage 90 day delinquencies
were down on the half, contrary to the normal seasonal trend. These factors have all supported our very
low impairment charge. In looking at the impairment charge, I've cut the numbers a bit differently to
highlight what has been behind the performance. Starting at the left, you can see the new IAPs are down
AUD206 million. Write-backs and recoveries have been fairly consistent as we've continued to work
through stressed and impaired assets. The third category, write-offs direct, relate mostly to the unsecured
portfolio, and again have been relatively stable. Other movements in collectively assessed provisions
principally reflect the improvement in asset quality. The CAP charge was not influenced by the economic
overlay, which increased AUD9 million this half, while the aggregate economic overlay was little changed,
the composition was slightly different. We reduced or utilised overlays related to the Christchurch
earthquake, New Zealand economy and a commercial property. We increased overlays to sectors and
regions of the economy undergoing structural change. These mainly related to manufacturing and specific
areas vulnerable to closure of major projects or factories. Two tables at the bottom pick up a couple of
small items I wanted to share with you. Firstly, while our provision cover remains strong, the Lloyds
acquisition understates the provision coverage ratio. This is because the accounting standards saw the
book brought onto the balance sheet at fair value, with no separate accounting provision recognised. As an
example, the CAP to credit risk rated asset ratio will be about 100 basis points if adjusted. Secondly, on the
right hand side, I've highlighted the interest carrying adjustment impact on our impairment charge. Our
implementation of AIFRS in 2006 led to some of the impairment charge being recognised in net interest
income. This sees our charge 4 basis points lower than it would be otherwise and is relevant when
comparing to peers. The key takeout of these two slides is that we have a strong story, whether you look at
the impairment charge, coverage or asset quality. Moving to the capital picture, we maintained our strong
position. At 8.82%, our common equity tier 1 ratio was down a little from September, but that was mostly
due to the Lloyds and the special dividend. This slide also demonstrates that we generated 12 basis of
organic capital in the half and on the fully harmonised basis, we have a ratio of 11.3%. I think, on any
measure, we're well capitalised in both absolute terms and in comparison to global peers. What is a very
topical area for this audience, is the new capital arrangements from 2016. Updates since our last result are
two-fold. Firstly, APRA has announced their 1% D-SIB buffer. Secondly, APRA has recently clarified the
wealth holding company leverage issue and there is no impact on Westpac. While we have not decided
our new preferred range, I wanted to share our thinking with you. In setting our preferred range, we
consider buffers for normal times and our risk appetite under very severe stress scenarios. In normal times,
we aim to stay comfortably above the capital conservation buffer. In very severe stress, we do not want to

Page80of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.operate below the midpoint of the capital conservation buffer. Under this approach, our preferred range
landed at 8% to 8.5%. We will use a similar approach in revising our range and will share with you the
details once that has been finalised. Importantly, as you can see on this slide, at 8.82%, we are very well
positioned for this change. So finally, turning to factors likely to influence the second half. Having lifted
growth, we begin the second half with good momentum. The improvement is particularly evident in the
mortgages portfolio. Some pickup in system credit growth is expected, although the rise is likely to be
modest, given consumers and businesses remain cautious. We will continue to be disciplined, and as I
indicated earlier, the current trends in margin before Treasury and Market are consistent with the first half
performance. We will continue to focus on core earnings, with cost growth appropriate for the operating
environment. We aim to offset business as usual expenses with productivity, while the impact of
investments will probably be a little bit higher in the second half, as amortisation rises following the
completion of some of our large projects. On asset quality, the forward indicators are positive and the book
continues to improve, although higher growth will probably require some provisioning. Finally, all of our
operating divisions are performing well which further supports our confidence in the outlook. Thank you and
let me pass back to Andrew.

q and a

ANDREW BOWDEN: Gail, can you come on up and I think I'll take the first question from Jarrod.
(Inaudible) getting too excited.

UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER: Congratulations, Gail and Peter. Peter, I think you should be buying Phil a beer
after this result, he's given you a very good one to deliver and an easy one. Two questions. Firstly on the
lack of a special dividend this time around, I note that your tier 1 ratio is actually higher than 12 months ago
when you did give a special dividend, D-SIBs doesn't come in until 2016 and you still have in excess of
AUD300 million of franking credits. So just around your thinking there and what needs to be seen going
forward so potentially that special dividend can come back in. That's the first one. The second one, just on
your point about increasing investment expenditure. I note that your capitalised software has gone up 23%
over the last 12 months, amortisation hasn't gone up as much. We expect the amortisation to increase
going forward and to what extent and how much more capitalisation in that (inaudible) should we expect
going forward?

GAIL KELLY: Thanks, [Jarrod]. Let me start perhaps with the first one, Pete and you can handle the
second. On the first one, Jarrod, you're right, we are very happy with the strength of our capital position, it is
a strong position but what we've done this time around I think is just a very sensible approach towards the
dividend decision. So the normal pattern of ordinary dividends AUD0.02 up and reflecting the strength of
the position and not needing to raise more capital immunising the impact of that dividend through the DRP.
We also flag though we are into a new world where the D-SIB is going to come into play from 1 January
2016. I think Pete outlined the factors and the framework that we use to think about that and we haven't yet
-- we've got time but it's a way, away. We haven't yet set what the new preferred range will be. We'll do that
in the second half of this year. So six months from now there will be another dividend but for us now I think
it's just a sensible approach.

PETER KING: On the software cap, over time we will see the amortisation increase and particularly with the
Westpac Live system now going live. In terms of the increase I think over the full year of 2014 we'll see
amortisation add about 1% -- maybe a little bit over 1% to cost growth but it will pick up in the second half
and that will -- I think that will see the size of the increase in the balance reduce a little bit or the speed of
increase in the balance reduce a little bit.

GAIL KELLY: It's often a function of when projects actually come on stream and that's when you start to
amortise them so the new online system is just coming on to stream now.

ANDREW BOWDEN: Brian?

BRIAN JOHNSON, ANALYST, CSLA: Brian Johnson, CLSA, congratulations Peter. Peter, two questions.
You kind of said that the non-recourse debt -- can you spell out exactly what you wanted to say? You said
that you've received word from APRA. What words?

PETER KING: APRA have written to us and confirmed the treatment of the well polling companies, and
what they've told us is that they should be consolidated in the level two banking groups. That will result in
ratios changing but not for us. They've also said that there will be some transition arrangements but they're
not clear.
BRIAN JOHNSON: So the non-recourse debt will not be netted against the equity investment in the last
half?
PETER KING: That is the result of consolidating the holding companies into the banking Group, but for
Westpac there's no change. That's the important thing that I was saying today.

Page81of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.BRIAN JOHNSON: Thank you. My question for Commbank, because I know they're listening in. Gail, if you
have a look at the economic capital note we've gone through -- and I apologise, I haven't had time to read it
but I'm assuming there's a big hunk of capital sitting in the middle as opposed to the operating divisions.
When you recalibrate the new target presumably some of that capital will end up floating back to the
divisions and the returns in those divisions will go down...

GAIL KELLY: (Inaudible).
BRIAN JOHNSON: Even though at the Group level it wouldn't. Can you just explain to us what that means
for pricing in the divisions?

GAIL KELLY: We allocate the capital to the division.

BRIAN JOHNSON: But there's a big hunk of unallocated capital sitting in the middle of it.
PETER KING: Well, I think there's two things. In terms of the capital that we hold in the Group at the
moment we basically hold -- so we allocate to tangible equity which means we hold the capital for the
goodwill and intangibles in the Group, we hold a bit of capital for the treasury operation and we hold capital
for the next dividend. So they're the three big buckets that we hold in the Group. The remaining piece is
actually not that big this half. So we've got the majority of the capital actually allocated out to the divisions.
The divisions always have line of sight both of what we allocate today but changes in the future. So as
you've indicated, should we move the preferred range we may need to allocate some more capital with the
divisions who will have line of sight of that and they will react to it. I'm not going to comment on how they
react to it in terms of their strategy but they have clear line of sight and they will be thinking about what it
looks like in 12 or 24 months' time.

BRIAN JOHNSON: So Pete, without having (inaudible) the table, can I just confirm there's been more
capital in this result allocated to the operating divisions?

PETER KING: You will see the growth in the allocated capital for the divisions going up because -- as we've
recalibrated the modelling.

BRIAN JOHNSON: Fantastic. Thank you.

ANDREW BOWDEN: John.

JOHN MOTT, ANALYST, UBS: John Mott from UBS. Just two quick questions on page 25, if I could. The
first one -- wouldn't have been saying this a while ago but you now say specific provisions to -- or individual
I should say -- to impaired assets, up at 46%. Now we know the balance has come down a lot and so is that
-- 46% seems a large amount for the residual impaired assets, is that because these are the worst of the
assets that are hardest to get off the book? Why such a large provision given asset prices are rallying again
especially in commercial property. The second one, which you talked on just to the right of that, you can
see -- you talked about the bad and doubtful debt charges wouldn't have been 12 basis points, it would
have been 16 basis points if you include the interest carrying adjustment and you differ from your peers in
your treatment. Can you elaborate on that and provide some more information and is that a permanent
adjustment or why shouldn't that be wearing off over time?

GAIL KELLY: On your first one you're spot on. It's just effectively that the ones that remain are a little bit
more retractable and so obviously we -- the provision that's directly associated with that particular exposure
-- and remember it's the property ones that we've been able to reduce so markedly over the last while and
the property ones generally are better secured. So you're simply right, it's just a little bit more retractable
and so a higher provision for what's left in the portfolio.

JOHN MOTT: Thank you. Does that mean that the institutional charge which was a recovery of AUD90
million I think in the half will go back towards zero over the next half, two halves.

GAIL KELLY: Well, difficult to know because Rob and I have these conversations frequently. If you asked
me that in November we probably would have said we wouldn't get a result like this, so it's difficult to know.
Obviously there's still a -- it's a very good quality book. I mean, that's the main thing I would say. There's
nothing in the institutional book that's of any concern for us. On the second one?

PETER KING: On the second matter it's a very technical accounting answer which I probably won't bore the
audience with today but in simple terms part of the impairment charge ends up in net interest income and
you can actually see it in the provisioning notes. So if you look at the movements in the provisioning note
you'll see the item increasing the provisioning balance, on the other side of it in net interest income. So it's
well disclosed in the provision note.

JOHN MOTT: And you differ from the banks?

Page82of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PETER KING: We do. So we've probably implemented a more pure version of effective interest rate
calculations and it may be something that I have a look at in future.

JOHN MOTT: Does that swing around as rates start going up?

PETER KING: It will change with rates but not markedly.

ANDREW BOWDEN: Scott.

SCOTT MANNING, ANALYST, JP MORGAN: Scott Manning from JP Morgan. You've been very focused in
the last couple of years to maintain that discipline around the customer margin and indeed it's been trading
at a reasonably tight range, 2.01% is the lowest that we've seen it pretty much since 2009. So down 5 basis
points for the period, how confident are you that you can maintain that line (inaudible) on margins or are we
entering a more competitive environment where you'll have to let that drift a bit lower to remain in the
market?

GAIL KELLY: Scott, it's worthwhile looking at the individual divisions there because AFS has actually gone
up slightly. So the impact on margins for this period has been, as we've previously flagged in the
institutional bank, so the customer margin there and largely -- I mean, a number of factors but the main one
is this working capital balance which has become more valuable under the LCR rules and so been more
fiercely competed for. So that's where the margin declines occurred, and then obviously in New Zealand as
well, a more competitive environment. So that's worthwhile just looking at that. Going forward, as I think
Pete indicated, AFS is well placed, we expect to continue to perform in the same fashion as we have in the
first half. There will be some further decline in WIB but if you want more detail on that perhaps Rob could
give you some and New Zealand some of the shift has already occurred to that fixed rate, it's a rising
interest rate environment so that margin pressure should ease somewhat.

SCOTT MANNING: Secondly, just on the treasury reasonably flat yield curve, not a lot going on
domestically so where did those gains get generated and are they sustainable going forward?

PETER KING: I think they're -- while it was fairly flat there were some movements during the period and the
Treasury was well positioned for those moves. So the majority of it was interest rate risk in the balance
sheet and also a bit of a pickup in returns from a liquidity portfolio. So we were pretty happy with the
treasury performance this half.

ANDREW BOWDEN: Brett?

BRETT LE MESURIER, ANALYST, BBY: Peter, another question on margins. On the loan margin you said
that there was a 7 basis point decrease and you said that was largely in mortgages, presumably that means
there was roughly a 7 point decrease in the mortgage book. So that would imply that the margin on new
business is a lot less than the margin on existing business given that about 10% of the book comes on in
six months, the new business is about AUD30 billion against current outstanding which is about AUD300
billion. Can you comment on the gap between the new business margin and the one you've currently got in
force because it looks like it's of the order of 50 basis points given the comments that you've made, you've
seen a large change in (inaudible)?

PETER KING: Yes, I haven't got the exact numbers, Brett but I think that's way too big. Yes.

GAIL KELLY: Yes, why don't you speak to it Grant?
UNIDENTIFIED COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: Thanks, Brett. So we have seen some decline in front
book margins on mortgages but actually if you look year to year and you take into account all the different
factors that affect margins which are the customer rate of discounting, the product mix, the channel mix and
the like, actually year-on-year I think our front book margins are up. So we've seen a decline in the first half
which reflects some competition but the overall net interest margin, which is really what we've been
managing to, is up. So we feel pretty comfortable with where we're at. There is some competitive tension,
we are responding to that but we also have offsets that we manage to (inaudible) very carefully so nothing
like the 50 basis points.

BRETT LE MESURIER: Can I ask a second question probably for Rob on trade finance margins? The
comment in WIB about the decline in margins associated with a large increase in trade finance, can you
comment on what's happening with the trade finance margins and the absolute level that you're seeing on
those at the moment?
ROB WHITFIELD, GROUP EXECUTIVE, WESTPAC GROUP: Yes, thanks very much. In terms of trade
finance margins they do remain very competitively competed for by all the international banks, so there has
been margin pressure. We've seen really strong volume growth, (inaudible) offset that margin pressure to
give us a pretty flat result overall. In terms of where that's going, we expect that pressure to continue

Page83of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.because these are high quality assets, short term duration, very effective under the new Basel rules and so
it's a very important part of our customer proposition as we expand into Asia. What's important to remember
for our trades finance book is it's a very small book though, so it has had a modest impact over the
institutional margin overall.

BRETT LE MESURIER: Thanks Rob.

ANDREW BOWDEN: Andrew?

ANDREW HILL, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Andrew Hill, Merrill Lynch. Two questions, firstly on
expenses. The productivity gains seem to have been slowing down in pace from FY11 and the AUD102
million this half was about AUD20 million below the same level of the previous period. I'm just wondering
should we expect that number to start going up again given the investment process and how

much of an impact Lloyds is likely to have on that. The second question was just around risk weighted
assets. I'm just wondering if you could talk about the opportunities to optimise risk weighted assets and, in
particular, how we should think about credit risk weighted assets relative to exposure in default going
forward.

PETER KING: Sure. On the risk weighted asset question I think we've done a good job over a long time of
optimising, if you use that word, the RWA calculation, so we feel like the heavy lifting's done in terms of
optimisation. So that won't be a large feature in terms of the result, moving forward. What was the first
question?

GAIL KELLY: The first one was on expenses. Yes, look, I wouldn't read too much into whether one half got
slightly more than the other half. Our pattern is to seek to offset the ordinary increase of expenses that
comes through salaries and rents and those sorts of things with productivity dividend, and we've achieved
that. So each line division knows they've got to run their expenses -- their ordinary expenses -- at flat, and
then you add the investment on top of that. Then we managed, as you know, to core earnings growth. So
that's the normal pattern. There remain plenty of opportunities for us around productivity. It's a huge area of
focus for us. We're definitely driving our digital agenda to improve productivity, make it a lot easier for
customers, a lot more self-serve that's actually happening. Customers doing thing themselves that
previously went to branches or went into contact centres. Our bank now -- and FreshStart, for example, are
very strong (inaudible) from a productivity point of view -- less rental, less in the way of transaction
management processes. So a very, very strong focus for us across the board, but I wouldn't read too much
into one half to another. Andrew Bowden Might take some questions on the phone, from Craig Williams
please.

CRAIG WILLIAMS, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Yes, good morning everyone. Perhaps similar lines to a
couple of the other questions, but you've called out a desire to tilt to growth as an organisation. That's
probably easier to manage to positive jaws when you don't pursue growth at system levels in as focused a
fashion. Your expense growth's running at 6% and your capitalised expenses as opposed to software
particularly balance, I think, was up 55% in your capital adequacy reconciliation. Can you talk about the
expected interplay between revenue expense growth as you get back to system growth rates? Can you
explain the capitalised expenses growth of 55% in the half, as is apparent in your cap ad statement?

PETER KING: Thanks Craig. In the cap ad statement that balance was particularly impacted by the Lloyds
acquisition, so quite a lot of deferred expenses came across on those line balances. We also had some
small movements between line items, and that explains the majority of the movement. There were also
some increases in mortgage growth costs, but the first two factors were the big factors.

GAIL KELLY: I mean I would say, Craig, on your overall expense comment of up 6%, I think Pete did a very
good job of breaking that down so that you can see if you separate out the impact of acquiring Lloyds and
the foreign exchange translation, the actual expense growth was 1.6%, and that includes the investment
over the half. So I think you need to understand the various components of that.

CRAIG WILLIAMS: Basically, the message is positive jaws to be expected for the most part.

GAIL KELLY: Well, we don't put out a target or a comment about positive jaws. We certainly are aiming at
core earnings growth as we are tilting to growth and managing our margin really tightly. There's good
revenue uplift that we're actually achieving. Then you've already heard me talk about the productivity
initiatives that we have in place.

CRAIG WILLIAMS: Okay. Thank you.

ANDREW BOWDEN: Got a question from John (inaudible) please.

Page84of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER: I'd just like to ask two questions. Firstly, just on home loan brokers. You've
increased the fees and the incentives in place to brokers to direct business to you. Are you looking to really
lift that broker market share? If so, what's the target? The second question is just what's the split within your
trade finance book between financial counterparties and corporate?

PETER KING: John, we might take that first question first on mortgages. I might ask you to ask that
question again because I didn't quite pick it up.

GAIL KELLY: The brokers.

UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER: It was to do with brokers and what's our target around brokers. I think I'd just
take you back to the update we gave in March, where we talked about the fact that the tilting the growth in
mortgages -- we've really been looking at all the aspects that drive the pipeline of growth in (inaudible).
We've been looking at channels, we've been looking at consideration, we've been looking at process. As
we did that, one of the things we found was that in broker we were out of the market on commission in
some areas and we had some processing issues in other areas. So we've worked to address that, and as a
result, broker being broker, it bounced back quite quickly. But our view would be that we really want all the
channels to perform well. We would expect some of the other changes we've made in processing and in
advertising and in sales capacity, that we would see a further increase in our first party origination as well.
So we don't really have a target, per se, for broker, but what we do want to see is that all of our channels
are performing well and delivering good returns.

GAIL KELLY: I mean it's not a material uplift this half. It's gone to, I think, 45% of our new lending was done
through brokers, whereas in the past half it was 43%. The system as a whole, I think, has increased in
terms of the percentage that's being done through brokers. So it's not material, but it's what you would
expect as you refocus in the way the that Grant's just discussed.

PETER KING: John, on your trade finance question, most of it's corporate.

UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER: Okay. Thank you.

ANDREW BOWDEN: Can I take a phone from Victor German please.

VICTOR GERMAN, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES: Thank you Andrew. Just, actually, a couple of
clarifications for me. I'm not sure if I missed it in your report, I suspect I would. Would you be able to
provide us an indication of what Lloyds contributed on the revenue side? I saw the expenses line, but just
contribution for the revenue for the half?

PETER KING: It's around double, Victor.

VICTOR GERMAN: Double that of expenses?

PETER KING: Yes.

VICTOR GERMAN: Secondly, I just wanted to pick up on that margin comment, so 7 basis points on an
underlying basis from assets. I noticed you provided divisional split in terms of margins, but obviously
margins is impacted by deposits as well. Just focusing on the asset side, are you able to give us an
indication of where most of this pressure's coming from?

PETER KING: In terms of the asset side we indicated that was around 5 basis points in the mortgage
portfolio of that 7 basis points, and the remainder was just really due to the business books, both in
institutional and in AFS and in Australia and New Zealand, so I think that gives you a thumbnail sketch of
what's happening there.

GAIL KELLY: In the mortgage, some of it's because of the switch from variable to fixed interest rates being
what they are at the moment and people expecting interest rate increases. You can see it in the disclosure,
there's been quite a shift from a customer point of view to fixed, so that obviously comes at a lower margin.
So that's some of the difference in mortgage margin.

VICTOR GERMAN: Right, and that's all predominantly in Australia? Or is it New Zealand as well?

PETER KING: No there's a little bit in New Zealand as well.

VICTOR GERMAN: The 5 basis points includes both Australia and New Zealand?

PETER KING: It does.

VICTOR GERMAN: Right. Are you able to give us an idea for what the split (inaudible) 5 basis points,
between New Zealand and Australia?

Page85of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PETER KING: One in New Zealand, four in Australia, broadly.

VICTOR GERMAN: Thank you.

ANDREW BOWDEN: Richard?

RICHARD WILES, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Richard Wiles, Morgan Stanley. You've been pretty
good at predicting some of the challenges in the institutional bank. At the last result you included in your
considerations for 2014. I notice, in this result, it's not in there as a consideration for the second half. I don't
expect you to predict the loan loss charge, but could you make some comment on what sort of revenue
growth and pre-provision profit growth expectations you might have?

GAIL KELLY: I think it's one for, Rob. I feel like maybe we should have put it on the slide, Richard.

ROB WHITFIELD: Thanks Richard. Look, I think you've got to look at some of the drivers of the current
performance. So the customer growth is up 2%, and we've been very clear to say that our cash earnings
growth would have been up 7% if you took out those infrequent items. If you back out the impairment
comment you make that added AUD90 million, core earnings would have been up 5%. So if you back
those infrequent items, take out the impairment charge and make your own assessment of what that will
look like in the future, then you can get a trajectory of what we're looking like. We're really comfortable with
our position and the growth opportunities. In term of where we are in the cycle, I think you've got to go in
terms of the margin back to what your view is in terms of the excess liquidity. Clearly, the US are tapering
which is starting to reduce it, but there's still lots of cash around the globe, which means great quality
assets are still going to be highly competed for. So I guess the bottom line is there's still pressure on the
margins, good underlying business growth momentum, and impairments probably provide less of a
supporting tailwind.

ANDREW BOWDEN: I've got one more question I'll take from James at the front here. (inaudible) just bring
it down to James here, thanks.

JAMES FREEMAN, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: James Freeman from Deutsche Bank. I just was after
a bit of an update on Asia. It was something that you mentioned a few periods ago, the big investments --
an idea as how that investment's gone, where we're up to, any changes?

GAIL KELLY: Thanks. I touched on it briefly in my remarks but, I think, again, Rob, why don't we hear it
from you directly? I'm perfectly, as the CEO, really pleased and, indeed, think that we're ahead of where we
expected to be from a point of view of this organic growth strategy in Asia. Remember, it's a strategy that's
predicated on supporting our customers, institutional or corporate, commercial, retail customers, as they're
increasingly trading, investing in Asia, and the reverse, as individuals, trade and invest back in Australia.
Rob, why don't you give some more detail?

ROB WHITFIELD: Yes, fantastic. Thank you. Look, some of things we've achieved in 2013 Gail made
reference to in her presentation. The first, of course, is our success in the Aussie Renminbi. With 11 banks
trading that now we've got about 25% market share there, so very successful. Lots of capability build in
2014 leading into 2015, so our trade finance capability platform in place. A lot of new hires of staff, but
coming off a modest base, but about 100 new FTE in Asia. That includes risk and governance employees,
but also people in the frontline, so more bankers on the street. We've got a new Chief Risk Officer up in
Asia, so building that capability as well. We've established an Asian advisory board, and that's had a
couple of meetings. You will have noticed the very recent appointment of the Chairman of SingTel, Simon
Israel, which we're really pleased about Simon joining that board and able to give us some advice as we
continue to grow and continue to invest in Asia, but it's a very focused strategy coming off a relatively
modest base.

ANDREW BOWDEN: Well, with that, thank you everyone and good morning. Please, if you've got any
further questions, you know where we are.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this
web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other
forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon
current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those
stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more
specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and
believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the
assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results
contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

Page86of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF
THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE
AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR
INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO
WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE
COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE
BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND
THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER
DECISIONS.]

CO wstpac : Westpac Banking Corporation Limited
IN i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
NS c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c173 : Financing Agreements | c15 : Performance | c17 :

Funding/Capital | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce :
FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe :
IWE Filter

RE austr : Australia | nz : New Zealand | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |

namz : North America

PUB CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
AN Document FNDW000020140507ea5400001

Page87of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.