Additional item: Competition from TPG threatens to economically derail A$40bn NBN project for Australia's Abbott government: Part 1

HD Additional item: Competition from TPG threatens to economically derail A$40bn NBN project for

Australia's Abbott government: Part 1

WC 1,654 words
PD 22 May 2014
SN Optical Networks Daily
SC OBSERV
LA
CY

English
(c) 2014 Electronics International Disclaimer: Whilst every effort has been taken to ensure the accuracy of
the information contained in this report, neither Electronics International nor its agents or sources can be
held responsible for any inaccuracy.

LP

TD

[Editorial comment: Update on Australia's NBN project] [The NBN Co organisation publishes quarterly
accounts detailing its achievements and as of March 31st, when it published accounts for the third quarter
of 2013/14, its achievements included:] [1. A cumulative life-to-date A$4.9 billion spent on capex and
A$2.4 billion on opex.] [2. Completion of 113 of its 121 points of interconnect for the NBN's 'core' network
and 80% of the transit network.] [3. The passing of 512,659 fixed line and fixed wireless premises, an
increase of nearly 96,000 over the previous quarter, for an average run rate over the quarter of 6,000
combined brownfield and greenfield premises per week and around 1,000 fixed wireless premises per
week.] [4. Cumulative implementation of 166,642 premises with an active NBN service at the end of
March, including 35,428 premises signed up during the quarter, with a total of 111,035 fibre customers
(brown and Greenfield), including 31,154, signed up during the quarter.] [5.

Construction during the third quarter of a satellite ground station at Roma and a telemetry, tracking and
control centre at Alice Springs.] [As far as the fixed wireless program is concerned, the company reached
860 sites in total, including 92 sites acquired during the quarter, with 316 sites integrated to date (46
during the quarter), and 200 basestations built and were ready to be activated.] [Background] [On
December 12, 2013 a 132 page strategic review, ordered by the incoming coalition government, of the
cost and status and re-planning of the giant NBN project had concluded that even though the nominal cost
of the project had been scaled down in pre-election proposals by the then opposition right-wing coalition to
A$29.5 billion, a realistic costing for the NBN was now believed to be $11.5 billion more, i.e. A$41 billion.
The review also concluded that the target dates for implementation would not be met and in fact would
now be three years later than the coalition's pre-election promises.] [Latest NBN Co weekly report] [For the
week ending May 18th, NBN Co reported that a total of 7,050 additional lots/premises were
passed/covered by the network during the week, of which 3,522 were in brownfield and 1,696 in greenfield
areas. It also said fixed wireless coverage increased by 1,832 premises during the week. Overall an
additional 3,681 premises had services activated on the network, including 3,255 on fixed line services
and 426 using satellite and fixed wireless technologies.] [Despite NBN Co having spent A$7.3 billion to
the end of the last quarter, or over 18% of a notional A$41 billion budgeted for the whole project, only
around 6.5% of Australia's 8.18 million homes seem to have been passed and only around 2% have
signed up for the service. Counting industrial premises as well those figures would be even lower.] [To a
large extent this is inevitable - plans had to be drawn up, a huge amount of political and commercial
negotiation had to take place (culminating in the Telstra A$11 million deal, which now has to be
renegotiated due to a shift of policy by the new Tony Abbott-led administration which took office in
September 2013), thousands of operational people have had to be trained and core infrastructure had to
be laid down before significant marketing could take place and retail signings for the high speed
broadband services achieve any momentum.] [Nonetheless, it may be difficult to persuade some
Australian citizens of that, particularly the very substantial number of those wedded to the idea that in a
region where most South Koreans, Japanese and inhabitants of Hong Kong already enjoy the benefits of
full FTTH network, ordinary Australians are entitled to the best possible solution. However, with Australia's
very short parliamentary term this project was always going to be a political football.] [The operational
situation] [Implementation of the NBN in Tasmania and the mainland has been distributed between around
ten major and many smaller infrastructure installers, including companies such as Service Stream,
Visionstream, Aurora Energy (Tasmania), John Holland, BSA, Transfield Services. Lend Lease, Downer
EDI, and Universal Communications Group. In what is a completely new situation for most of these, there
have been and continue to be problems, particularly since on top of the core difficulty of connecting up the
sixth largest country in the world (which also ranks a lowly 235th out of 241 for population density) they

Page173of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.have had to meet tougher and tougher targets whilst moving away from the simplicity of pure FTTH for
most locations to a mixed-technology approach that is supposed to save money. However, that is yet to be
proven and revised budgets are already being exceeded.] [Service Stream signs contract extension]
[Meanwhile, on May 19th Service Stream of Melbourne, an A$81 million capitalised, 3,000-employee ASX
quoted supplier of network services covering access, design, build, installation and maintenance for fixed
communications, mobile communications, and energy and water systems and currently led by MD Terry
Sinclair, announced that it had signed a contract extension worth a potential A$140 million. Of the total
A$140 million, A$70 million is for the first two years of the contract, with a further $70 million arising
from two one-year extension options. The contract involves the design and build of the NBN in new
greenfield housing estates in New South Wales, Western Australia, South Australia and the Northern
Territory, and the company can also tender for work in other regions outside those states.] [On May 21st
the Northern Territory News reported that NBN Co and Service Stream were in negotiations for Service
Stream to increase its subcontracted workers by 60% from 50 to 80 individuals. NT News also noted that
the Territory (with a population of 239,000, 1.0% of the national total) remained the slowest rollout area
around the country, as well as showing some of the poorest take-up by homes and businesses. It also
quoted Australia's Financial Review as saying that more than 55% of Canberrans and 35% of NSW
premises take on a service, but just 6.5% of Northern Territorians had so far signed up for high-speed
broadband.] [Visionstream gets extension, but Tasmania to have FTTN] [Also on May 19th Leighton's
construction company Visionstream announced it would continue rolling out fibre to new houses across
Victoria, Queensland and Tasmania in a two-year contract extension worth A$90 million. The company
was originally paid A$102 million to undertake greenfield fibre design and construction work in Victoria
and Queensland in 2012 and is responsible for overall fibre network construction in Tasmania.] [Under the
new deal Visionstream continue the design and construction of FTTP in new estates, as well as the
commissioning of pit and pipe infrastructure and the establishment of temporary transit fibre networks to
those new estates. (NB: Visionstream has faced criticism from the Coalition government over its handling
of the NBN rollout in Tasmania, with the company seeking additional funding to complete the rollout of
fibre to 190,000 premises in that state, and the request means NBN Co is likely to switch the rollout in the
state to FTTN.)] [NBN designer Ferris downgraded to advisory position] [On April 22nd a number of
Australian technical sources reported that Peter Ferris, executive GM of planning and design at NBN Co
and responsible for the overall network design of the emerging NBN (including NBN Co’s original FTTP
rollout as envisioned by Kevin Rudd's Labor government back in 2009), had been stripped of his
responsibilities. During an organisational review, Ferris was moved into an advisory position supporting
newly-appointed NBN Co COO Greg Adcock. The general view is that this was a purely political decision
as Ferris was widely regarded as highly competent.] [First FTTN node implemented on NSW Central
Coast] [Although the incoming coalition government had made the political decision that NBN Co should
adopt a cheaper broadband implementation policy based on a broader mix of technologies that made
better use of existing copper, NBN Co initially focused on FTTP and had little experience of such
technologies. In particular it had it had little experience of mass implementation and the use of an existing
copper network which many people had previously claimed as reaching the end of its useful life.] [On April
21st NBN Co announced that a trial at Umina Beach on the Woy Woy Peninsula in New South Wales that
had involved the installation of a VDSL modem in a shop front connected to the existing copper telephone
line and a Telstra node in the street 100 metres away had delivered raw download speeds of 105 Mbit/s
and upload speeds of 45 Mbit/s.] [While NBN Co CEO Bill Morrow said the results demonstrated the
viability of using copper to deliver high-speed broadband in Australia, COO Greg Adcock was more
cautious and merely described the results as encouraging. Moreover, an Australian newspaper report
noted that the speeds achieved in this trial represented the straight down speed taken off a quick test and
there would be substantial traffic class management overhead implemented before it got to retail service
providers.] [(Editorial note: this Foreword should be read as an update to the three-part series published in
February 2014.)]

For further information go to http://www.opticalkeyhole.com

Whilst every effort has been taken to ensure the accuracy of the information contained in this report,
neither Optical Keyhole nor its agents or sources can be held responsible for any inaccuracies or result
thereof. No item shall be taken as a recommendation to buy or sell any form of equity.

CO nbnaus : NBN Co Limited
IN

i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3303 : Networking | i7902 : Telecommunications | ibrdbi : Broadband
Infrastructure | icomp : Computing | itech : Technology
gpol : Domestic Politics | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations
austr : Australia | tasman : Tasmania | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania

NS
RE

PUB Electronics International

Page174of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AN Document OBSERV0020140522ea5m0000c

Page175of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.