Iron ore ends Termite's digging days

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Iron ore ends Termite's digging days

Simon Evans
463 words
26 September 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
16
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Termite Resources has been sent to its grave after less than four years of digging, a victim of plunging
iron ore prices.
Even having a 49 per cent owner from China, the centre of the world's appetite for iron ore, wasn't
enough. The entity, a subsidiary of ASX-listed IMX Resources, operated the Cairn Hill iron ore mine
in northern South Australia, about 55 kilometres from the opal mining centre of Coober Pedy. Termite
has now been officially buried in the corporate graveyard after creditors voted for a liquidation.

Termite was 51 per cent-owned by IMX and 49 per cent by China's Taifeng Yuanchang International
Development, and was an early victim of the slump in iron ore price with administrators Ferrier
Hodgson appointed in June. Creditors voted for a liquidation last week. There is still a scramble to try
and salvage something, as Perth-based advisers PCF Capital field offers for the mine, in a process
where final bids were due on September 23.

IMX acting chief executive Phil Hoskins said on Thursday that even if funds were raised from that part
of the process they will go to creditors, and nothing will find its way to IMX. In December, 2010,
IMX had a market capitalisation of $200 million as the first shipments of iron ore were made from
Cairn Hill.
IMX's market capitalisation is now just $10 million and it is focusing on nickel, gold and graphite
prospects in Tanzania.
Analysts say the Cairn Hill mine was high cost and its small output of 1.7 million tonnes per year
meant it was vulnerable to any iron ore price slide. Since Termite hit strife in June, the iron ore price
has tumbled even further to below $US80 per tonne, its lowest level since September 2009. This
compares with an average of $US135 per tonne last year.

Ferrier Hodgson – which is also the liquidator of Termite – in an update to creditors said it had found a
buyer for 49,000 tonnes of iron-copper ore which had been sitting at the port of Port Adelaide, with
the sale to be completed over the next few weeks.
Two weeks ago, IMX exited completely from iron ore in SA, with a separate deal to sell its Mount
Woods tenements near Coober Pedy for $3.7 million to a private Perth company called Cu-River
Mining, owned by Chinese interests.
Mr Hoskins said $3 million of that will go to pay a liability to Flinders Ports, which operates most of
SA's ports. "Flinders Ports required a parent company guarantee," he said. This was a guarantee
over shiploading and logistics which Termite couldn't satisfy under its own structure.

CO

ferhod : Ferrier Hodgson & Company | gldsm : IMX Resources Limited

Page24of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys |
ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i836 : Accounting | iacc :
Accounting/Consulting | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
c21 : Output/Production | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140925ea9q0000r

Page25of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.