Anketell deepwater port plan unveiled in WA Government bid to 'unlock potential' of West Pilbara

HD
BY
WC 817 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

Anketell deepwater port plan unveiled in WA Government bid to 'unlock potential' of West Pilbara

By Gian De Poloni and Lucienne Bell

18 June 2014
Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC) News
ABCNEW
English
(c) 2014 Australian Broadcasting Corporation

TD

The Western Australian Government has unveiled a master plan for a multi-user, multi-commodity
deepwater port in the Pilbara, which has the potential to be the biggest port in Australia.

The State Government has proposed Anketell Port be built on greenfields land about 30 kilometres east
of Karratha, and said the project would be boast an eventual export capacity of more than 350 million
tonnes a year.

If realised, it would be more than double the total exports through the nearby Dampier Port and 20 per
cent larger than shipments at Port Hedland, which is Australia's biggest export facility.

The Western Australian Government has unveiled a master plan for a multi-user, multi-commodity
deepwater port in the Pilbara, which has the potential to be the biggest port in Australia.

The State Government has proposed Anketell Port be built on greenfields land about 30 kilometres east
of Karratha, and said the project would boast an eventual export capacity of more than 350 million
tonnes a year.

If realised, it would be more than double the total exports through the nearby Dampier Port and 20 per
cent larger than shipments at Port Hedland, which is Australia's biggest export facility.

Although currently unfunded, the State Government has been actively planning the development of the
port so it is "ready to go" for potential investors.

WA Premier Colin Barnett said access to port space was increasingly rare in the Pilbara.

"Development of Anketell Port will help unlock the potential of the West Pilbara by aiding further
development of the state's natural resources," he said.

Dampier Port Authority chief executive Steve Lewis told ABC Rural the port would encompass 4,300
hectares of land and eventually include eight berths.

"We now have a master plan that actually shows where the berths are, how the approaches will be done
and where the channel will be," he said.
"The first company building there will build at least two berths and that will grow over time as demand for
iron ore increases and eventually it will be built to eight berths.
"Iron ore is such a rich resource up there that will continue to have decades of demand from the world."
Master plan to lure investors despite falling iron ore price

Mr Lewis said the master plan would act as a reference for potential financiers of the project.

"The Premier has been very active in organising and seeking funding for the port and that will follow its
own course," he said.

"The release of the document today is to allow all of those interested parties to have a very clear view of
what the State Government expects for that port."

Page65of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mr Lewis said the vision for the port would not be affected by the iron ore price dropping below $US90 a
tonne, the lowest point since September 2012.
"This is an ultimate design plan, so it doesn't need to be reviewed depending on the iron ore price," he
said.
"It's really the speed in which it's built that will be impacted by iron ore prices and demand.
"Along with the privately owned ports, I'm sure we'll very quickly see more than a billion tonnes of iron
ore going out of the Pilbara over the next few years, so a very major source of iron ore on a world scale."

A native title agreement over the land was signed with the Ngarluma people in March and an Aboriginal
heritage survey is currently underway.
The development of four berths at the port with an export capacity of 115 million tonnes a year has
already been given state and federal environmental approval.

The Environmental Protection Authority has said although the development of the port would result in
permanent losses of habitat, the approval has conditions that will help minimise the environmental
impacts.

Aquila willing to accept Baosteel/Aurizon takeover bid
Meanwhile, the company with the rights to build the first berths at the port, Aquila Resources, has
indicated its willingness to accept a $1.4 billion takeover bid.
Aquila has a 50 per cent stake in the West Pilbara Iron Ore project, which includes a proposal to develop
a mine near Pannawonica, a rail line and berths at Anketell Port.
Last month, Chinese steel maker Baosteel and Australian rail freight operator Aurizon submitted a
proposal to buy out Aquila, which if accepted would give Baosteel and Aurizon the rights to develop the
iron ore project.

Aquila's board today recommended its shareholders accept the offer in the absence of a better proposal.
Last week, Australian company Mineral Resources submitted a higher bid to take over Aquila, however
the two could not reach an agreement on terms and conditions.

The Baosteel/Aurizon offer expires on July 11.

IN

NS

i5020017 : Harbor Construction | i763 : Port/Harbor Operations | i502 : Heavy Construction | iconst :
Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction | iship : Water Transport/Shipping | itsp :
Transportation/Shipping
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | gpol : Domestic Politics | greg : Regional Politics | c18 :
Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat :
Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters
| nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
IPD Anketell
PUB Australian Broadcasting Corporation
AN

Document ABCNEW0020140618ea6i0008e

Page66of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.