QANTAS , CATHAY PACIFIC AND BRITISH AIRWAYS OPEN NEW LA BUSINESS LOUNGE

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

QANTAS, CATHAY PACIFIC AND BRITISH AIRWAYS OPEN NEW LA BUSINESS LOUNGE

1,074 words
18 June 2014
ENP Newswire
ENPNEW
English
(c) 2014, Electronic News Publishing. All Rights Reserved.

Release date - 17062014

Sydney - Managing airline Qantas, together with joint owners and oneworld partners Cathay Pacific and
British Airways, officially unveiled the new stylish and spacious Los Angeles Business Lounge at Los
Angeles International Airport today.

The contemporary design reflects Californian culture combined with signature elements from each airline,
featuring a communal fireplace to relax and socialise around and a central glass atrium providing natural
light and space.

The lounge offers customers menus influenced by multicultural California, a new dining area, a cocktail
bar serving signature cocktails and premium wines, and a barista service. Customers can also enjoy an
enhanced buffet, faster WiFi, new workstations and nine shower suites with Aurora Spa amenities.

From today the lounge will accommodate 400 customers. Upon completion of all phases in early 2015, it
will offer seating for 600 customers. This combined with the new world-class Qantas First Lounge, will be
more than double the size of the former space.
Qantas International CEO, Simon Hickey, said the new multi-million dollar lounge demonstrates the
airline's commitment to its customers and to Los Angeles as one of the most popular hubs in the airline's
overseas network.
'The new Los Angeles Business Lounge is proof of our ongoing investment in our product to ensure we
provide the best travel experience possible for our customers when they are on the ground and in the air,'
said Mr Hickey.

'As well as an overall upgrade, we've significantly increased the amount of space in the lounge for our
premium customers. It's designed to reflect the culture of California, while providing a place to relax,
socialise and work before their flight.

'Los Angeles is our major gateway to the US and with our partners we connect our customers to more
than 270 destinations across the United States, Canada and Mexico.

'The lounge provides Qantas customers with a wider selection of dining options, so they can maximise
their sleep onboard our overnight flights to Australia.'

Renowned Qantas Chef Neil Perry has designed the new menus based on signature Qantas Lounge
favourites, with influences of multicultural Los Angeles including Italian, Mexican, Chinese, Korean and
US West Coast street food.

Californian food carts similar to the pop-up dining concept offer freshly prepared dishes such as crumbed
cod tacos with red cabbage slaw and lime chipotle mayo and Asian-spiced chicken wings. Customers can
also enjoy a variety of hot and cold dishes from an enhanced buffet.

Qantas has partnered with Sofitel to offer a service experience consistent with the standards across its
Sydney, Melbourne, Hong Kong and Singapore lounges. The service includes a hosted experience for
customers travelling in First, Platinum Frequent Flyers and oneworld Emerald members with exclusive
services including shirt pressing, shoe shining and priority access to showers.

Page80of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Upon completion the Business Lounge will also include seven additional shower suites bringing the total
to 16, a Family Zone and a dedicated dining area. Customers in the dining area will be offered a daily
plate choice with matching premium wine or beer and able to enjoy Qantas signature dishes from an
additional buffet area.

A new world class Qantas First Lounge accommodating over 200 customers will open in Los Angeles in
line with the completion of the Los Angeles Business Lounge. While the new Qantas First Lounge
refurbishment is in progress, Qantas, Cathay Pacific and British Airways First and premium tier Frequent
Flyers will use the new Los Angeles Business Lounge.

Tom Owen, Senior Vice President, Americas for Cathay Pacific said: 'Cathay Pacific travellers are
accustomed to a premium lounge experience due to our renowned airport lounges in Hong Kong and
around the world, and the new Los Angeles business lounge certainly delivers on this expectation.
'Our major investment in the Los Angeles business lounge is a reflection of the importance of this market
to us and we are pleased to join with fellow oneworld carriers Qantas and British Airways in welcoming
our customers inside.'

Steve Clark, Head of North America, Asia Pacific Customer Service and Operations for British Airways'
said: 'This new lounge facility reflects British Airways' commitment to delivering customer service
excellence both in the air and on the ground. We now operate a double daily A380 between Los Angeles
and London Heathrow and our customers will surely benefit from the investment in the lounge.'

Qantas is the only carrier to operate A380 services between Australia and the US. Qantas operates
double daily A380 services from Sydney and Melbourne to Los Angeles, a daily B747 (refreshed with
A380-style interiors) service from Brisbane to Los Angeles, a daily B747 Sydney to New York service and
the introduction of direct A380 services between Sydney and Dallas/Fort Worth from 29 September.
Qantas celebrates its 60th year flying across the Pacific this year.
Cathay Pacific Airways flies four times daily from Los Angeles to Hong Kong and beyond, including over
22 destinations in Mainland China. Cathay also offers daily flights from Chicago - increasing to 10 flights
per week on August 2, 2014 - four times daily from New York (JFK), daily from Newark Liberty, double
daily from San Francisco and Vancouver, 10 flights per week from Toronto; and cargo flights to 15 cities
across the Americas.
British Airways, part of International Airlines Group, is one of the world's leading global premium airlines
and the largest international carrier in the UK. The carrier has its home base at London Heathrow, the
world's busiest international airport and flies to more than 70 different countries. British Airways carries
almost 40 million customers a year and has a fleet of more than 280 aircraft. It operates twice daily A380
services from Los Angeles to London Heathrow's Terminal 5.
To celebrate the official opening of the Los Angeles Business Lounge, Qantas is bringing the
Californian-inspired menu to its Qantas Clubs across the domestic network. From 18 - 20 June customers
will be able to enjoy classic American hot dogs with sauerkraut, mustard and ketchup.
Qantas is also offering a Luxury USA Sale in First, Business and Premium Economy until 11:59pm
AEST 21 June 2014 unless sold out prior. Customers who book a Premium Economy sale fare will
receive a complimentary pass to the new Los Angeles Business Lounge.* To book, visit qantas.com
*Terms and conditions apply.

[Editorial queries for this story should be sent to newswire@enpublishing.co.uk]

CO

IN
NS
RE

bairw : International Consolidated Airlines Group S.A. | cathp : Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd | qntas :
Qantas Airways Ltd
iairtr : Air Transport | itsp : Transportation/Shipping | i75 : Airlines | i7501 : Scheduled Passenger Airlines
npress : Press Releases | ncat : Content Types
usa : United States | lax : Los Angeles | sydney : Sydney | uk : United Kingdom | usca : California | apacz
: Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz :
Europe | namz : North America | nswals : New South Wales | usw : Western U.S. | weurz : Western
Europe

PUB Electronic News Publishing Ltd.
AN

Document ENPNEW0020140618ea6i000jo

Page81of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.