DATAROOM

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
DATAROOM

EDITED BY BRIDGET CARTER
1,128 words
24 October 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
22
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Transfield sets the takeover ball rolling THE $1 billion takeover bid for Transfield Services by Spanish
construction giant Ferrovial could be about to set the ball rolling for more deal activity in the industrials
sector, as an increasing amount of attention is being turned to the intentions of private equity giant
TPG Capital.
Fresh from striking a deal to buy real estate business DTZ from UGL for $1.2bn, TPG is believed to
be in talks with Leighton Holdings to buy its services assets, and now, some think that move is likely
to be followed by a takeover of the remaining engineering operations of UGL.

Both deals would create an Australian services business for TPG of scale, generating between $4bn
and $5bn of annual revenue, according to estimates.
The US-based sponsors TPG and Kohlberg Kravis Roberts recently walked away from Treasury Wine
Estates and both are now rumoured to have industry players on the ground in search of opportunities
focused on the mining and infrastructure services space.
Should KKR or TPG purchase the business, it could even be that outgoing chief executive Richard
Leupen re-enters the frame as the group’s boss.

UGL’s share price of $6.19 is a far cry from almost three years ago when the stock was trading at
about $16. Its recent DTZ sale saw it shore up its debt position, as a lower level of mining activity
creates weaker conditions for the business and its peers.
TPG, along with private equity group Apollo, is believed to be through to the second round to buy
Leighton’s services assets that are up for sale through Macquarie Capital, while China
Communications Construction Company and Samsung are believed to be competing for John
Holland.

Ferrovial, through advisers UBS, mulled a purchase of both Leighton’s John Holland contracting
business and its services assets before launching at Transfield.

Both Samsung and Ferrovial lost out on winning the $8bn East West Link tunnel project in Melbourne,
thought to have cost the pair as much as $20m, and it’s thought that a motivation behind a Leighton
acquisition is to limit the chance of missing out on the next deal, helped along by having a business
in Australia of greater scale.
Meanwhile, others suggest engineering services firm Worley Parsons’ lagging share price could
make it ripe for an acquisition, although it was difficult to see what global company would be a logical
suitor for a consulting business.

Calling for GE buyers MORGAN Stanley and Credit Suisse hope to attract a greater number of
potential buyers for GE Capital’s $1bn consumer lending business by offering financing for smaller
groups.

Page95of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Smaller parties may have shied away from an acquisition in fear that they would not be able to lock in
the funding. Flyer documents have so far been sent out to a range of potential buyers before
information memorandums are issued next month.

Among the groups earmarked as potential buyers for the $7bn worth of loans are the Commonwealth
Bank, National Australia Bank, Westpac and ANZ, while Macquarie Group is thought to be a likely
suitor along with financial firm Pepper Group.
GE Money has 3 million customers and operates throughout Australia and New Zealand.

It offers a range of services, including personal home loans, car loans, credit cards, personal
insurance and interest-free and promotional retail finance.

It is understood the operation makes most of its money out of its credit cards and those it provides on
behalf of groups such as supermarket giant Coles. FlexiGroup is also seen as a rival to GE Money,
which the US-based conglomerate is understood to be selling because it is not core to the business.
When Investec’s Australian lending business was sold to Bank of Queensland last year for $440m,
Macquarie was also seen as a strong contender.

Meanwhile, the market will await NAB’s full-year results next week for news on whether it is a seller of
its MLC wealth management arm. The bank’s new boss, Andrew Thorburn, is yet to address assets
dragging down its return on equity and capital, which includes the underperforming MLC along with
its British operations, the Clydesdale Bank.

Huon shares leaping AS shares in Huon Aquaculture finished the first day of trade up 5c from an
issue price at $4.80, adviser Credit Suisse will hope the solid result leads to more runs on the board
for the investment bank in the IPO space.

The bank’s deals have included the floats of Healthscope, Genesis and Pact, alongside other
advisers, while the group floated property trust GDI and the troublesome McAleese Transport last
year.
Salmon farmers Peter and Frances Bender are thought to have made up to $25 million through initial
proceeds from the sale of their Tasmanian-based farming operation they started 28 years ago, which
now has a market capitalisation of at least $400m.

Australia’s salmon market is a duopoly between Huon and market leader Tassal, which closed steady
on the market at $3.35.

Investors poured $125m into the Huon deal, where shares were slated to sell for between $4.75 and
$5.40. The Bender’s stake is 68 per cent.

Vocation in a halt VOCATION Limited, long a target of training sector scuttlebutt, had its shares in a
trading halt yesterday as it prepared to announce the outcome of a review being conducted into some
of its Victorian operations by the state’s Department of Education and Early Childhood Development.

The halt could be in place until Monday, but speculation was mounting that the results aren’t good.
The review has meant a large part of the company’s revenues have been suspended — and that
could be permanent.
The company has consistently said the review was immaterial, and only disclosed it following media
speculation in August. Since then Vocation’s share price has dove by around a third.

Vocation has sought to register many of the courses taught at its now-suspended subsidiary Bawm —
trading as Buildit Learning, Diverse Learning and RTO Edge — at its other RTOs, Learning Verve and
Training & Development Australia.

And the rumour mill has continued. Earlier this week The Australian was sent an email and forms
allegedly circulated by Vocation staff to its trainers, asking them to re-enrol students at Yooralla, a
separate entity.

Vocation did have a relationship with Yooralla, but a spokeswoman for the Yooralla said it had been
terminated in July and no enrolments or re-enrolments had been taken since.

The email was dated August 11, but Vocation said it could merely have been an administrative error
and the enrolments never filed, thus they didn’t appear on any record.

carterb@theaustralian.com.au

Page96of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CO

IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

kkr : KKR & Co. L.P. | leiho : Leighton Holdings Ltd | tpgpar : TPG, Inc. | traser : Transfield Services
Limited | trzwn : Treasury Wine Estates Ltd | frvl : Ferrovial SA | hocht : Hochtief AG | ocisa : ACS
Actividades de Construcciones y Servicios SA
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i426 : Wine | i502 : Heavy Construction | i81502 :
Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150203 : Private Equity | ialco : Alcoholic Beverages/Drinks |
ialtinv : Alternative Investments | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks |
icnp : Consumer Goods | iconst : Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ifinal : Financial
Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
c182 : Asset Transactions | cacqu : Acquisitions | c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 :
Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141023eaao0001h

Page97of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.