Mercer posts FY loss on new staff hires, tough Aust market

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Article
Mercer posts FY loss on new staff hires, tough Aust market

BusinessDesk
773 words
29 August 2014
09:28
Scoop.co.nz
SCCONZ
English
Copyright 2014, scoop.co.nz All Rights Reserved.

Mercer posts annual loss on new staff hires, tough Australian conditions

By Suze Metherell

Aug. 29 (BusinessDesk) - Mercer Group, the stainless steel manufacturer, reported an annual loss as it
hired new staff to fuel future profit growth while trading conditions in Australia remained tough.
The Auckland-based company posted a loss of $483,000 in the year ended June 30, from a profit of
$778,000 a year earlier, it said in a statement. Sales rose 5.4 percent to $40.8 million, while earnings
before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation was $1 million, from $2.5 million in 2013, and in line
with guidance. It didn't declare a dividend.
The company halved its Ebitda forecast in May, saying slow sales growth and delayed stainless steel
contracts had combined with costs taken on in anticipation of growth, denting profit. Mercer wants to
expand to the North American market and has previously signalled staff hiring would impact earnings
over the coming year.
"The company is committed to this growth strategy, but recognises it has affected near-term endings," it
said in a statement.

Its stainless division, which makes equipment largely for the food industry, reported a 60 percent drop in
Ebitda to $1.3 million on largely unchanged sales at $27.7 million, as it expanded its workforce to build
and manufacture its Titan Slicers. The company secured three customers in the US market, and said it
had orders for two slicers and expects sales in the coming year to exceed 12 slicer sales. The segment
also has orders for Symons Transport, the Pahiatua dairy expansion, Synlait Milk's dryer project and
Westland Milk Products.

Its interiors division, which manufactures sinks, basins, toilets and laminate products in New Zealand,
posted an Edbitda loss of $521,000 from a profit of $279,000, as sales increased 2.7 percent to $8.37
million. The segment changed general managers and its new tight radius sinks product took longer than
expected to implement, Mercer said.

Meanwhile trading conditions across the Tasman were difficult as it lost and struggled to replace a
secondary administrator, while the relative strength of the kiwi dollar against the Australian currency
made products look even more expensive against cheaper Chinese imports in the competitive market.
It said an anti-dumping notice issued by the Australian government to target sinks exported from China
and the duty, collectable post-balance date from Aug. 13, would range from between 19 percent to 61
percent depending on the supplier. It said it was working with its primary distributor, Argent Australia, to
grow sales.

Mercer Medical, which supplies sterilisation, washing and disinfection equipment, more than doubled
Ebitda to $468,000 as sales rose 28 percent to $3.6 million. The company introduced MMM equipment

Page368of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.into New Zealand and bought the remaining business and assets of Med-Chem, which was in
liquidation, giving it greater scale and more products to sell.

The metal producer finalised a licence agreement for S-Clave, its sterilisation technology, with a large
multi-national company which injected $800,000 upfront for its US expansion, without being more
specific.
Mercer will receive a further $1 million in funding over the next two years from the Callaghan Institute,
the government innovation fund, for S-Clave, and expects to invest $1 million itself over the next two
years. It will use the cash for development with the aim of bringing it to market in the next two to three
years and believes a significant portion of its total business value now reflects the intellectual property of
S-Clave.
It forecast 10 percent sales growth over the coming year, and expected to invest around $1.2 million in
plant, equipment and intangibles. Mercer doesn't expect to pay a dividend in 2015.
The company had a series of setbacks during the global financial crisis in 2008 when it was caught out
with too much debt on its books and halted repayments to South Canterbury Finance, when Alan
Hubbard was a cornerstone shareholder, after breaching its banking covenant. In 2011, it appointed
Rodger Sheppard, a former senior Fairfax New Zealand and PMP executive, to head the company after
a strategic review of the business.
In January, Milford Asset Management spent about $2.3 million snapping up a 5.2 percent stake in the
company after a dispute between Hubbard's widow and the statutory managers of the various Hubbard
entities was settled last year.

The shares were unchanged at 19.5 cents in morning trading, and have gained some 22 percent year to
date.

(BusinessDesk)

IN
NS

i3244 : Food Product Machinery | i32 : Machinery | iindstrls : Industrial Goods
c151 : Earnings | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB Scoop Media Limited
AN

Document SCCONZ0020140829ea8s00031

Page369of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.