Adding a sweetener to the milk and honey gives us the power to make this the land of opportunity

SE
HD

BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Adding a sweetener to the milk and honey gives us the power to make this the land of
opportunity
Jared Lynch
1,366 words
15 February 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
6
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

$3.9b

$7.6b

$2b
$670m

FOOD FOR THOUGHT
TOP PROCESSED FOOD EXPORTS
Meat and meat products
Other food and beverage preparations
Dairy products
Cereal preparations
Oils and fats
TOP DESTINATIONS
Japan
$2.7b
United States
China
$1.4b
Total processed
food exported
TOP SOURCES
New Zealand
United States
Singapore $833m
Total processed
food imported
SOURCE: DFAT, 2013
If Gary Helou could restart his career, the boss of Australia's biggest dairy company says he would
still bet on food manufacturing.

$15.7b

$811m

$2b

$1.9b

$1.2b

$10.9b

"If you gave me a blank piece of paper and asked me what sector you wanted to be in and where you
wanted to be located, you would pick food and you'd pick Australia," he says. "Food, because Asia is
going to require a lot of food imports in the future, and Australia because we are such a rich, green,
clean, highly reputable source of great foods."

With food processing making up almost a quarter of Australia's beleaguered manufacturing sector, it
has been touted as a potential bright spark, especially in contrast to the dying car-making industry.

So why does the Australian food processing landscape look so bleak?
In the past five years, exports have been stagnant, down 0.1 per cent, at about $15.9 billion.

The outlook has been so dire that, this week, the Victorian government gave a Coca-Cola Amatil
subsidiary $22 million to keep its Shepparton fruit cannery afloat. The global soft-drink giant will tip in
$70 million to refit the plant.

Page186of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.But while SPC Ardmona workers' jobs have been saved, at least for the next three years, others
haven't been as fortunate

Kellogg's will axe 100 jobs this year when it shifts its factory from the NSW central coast to Thailand.
Heinz adopted a similar tactic in 2000 when it shut its factory in Dandenong in favour of New Zealand.

High labour costs, high tariffs and a high Australian dollar have been cited as significant headwinds
for manufacturers and processors.

But that does not deter Helou. He sees Australia as a land of opportunity and, as managing director of
Murray Goulburn, he is prepared to make the most of it.

"We are high cost, but you build around that," he says. "You automate. You don't design heavy
manualised operating plants.
"You still have people working in the plants but they are doing very highly value-added business. It's
about automation, it's about cost leadership."

Last April, Murray Goulburn signed an unprecedented 10-year deal with Coles to supply daily
pasteurised milk. This has allowed the farmer co-operative to build two factories in Sydney and
Melbourne and complete upgrades in a "sector that has been stagnant and under-invested in", Helou
says.
New plants and updating are crucial in competing with the world's biggest dairy exporter, New
Zealand, which has milk dryers 10 times more efficient than Australia's.

Coles spokesman Robert Hadler says those companies that fail to invest in new equipment will
struggle. "We have the sixth-highest labour costs in the world," he says. "Productivity in Australia has
been moving backwards not forwards. But a lot of that is not to do with workers, it is to do with old and
inefficient equipment in factories."

Although processors, including SPC, have battled greater competition from private labels, Helou
believes branded and home products can co-exist

"Those companies that define their life around the domestic market drivers will have a very, very
difficult time, in my opinion, because the scale and the growth is not only in Australia but also
internationally."

But he says the key to survival isn't as simple as cutting costs and having more of an export focus.

"Unfortunately, for many Australian food processors, they tend to focus on an Australian perspective
and surplus to be sold internationally. I think those days are well and truly gone. You need to be
making products that consumers in those international markets want."

SunRice chief executive Rob Gordon agrees. In the past two years, Australia's last remaining
agriculture monopoly has more than doubled investment in marketing.

Gordon, who replaced Mr Helou after he resigned from SunRice in 2011, says innovation is important
in keeping food manufacturers' place on supermarket shelves and for international expansion.

He says Asia is an important emerging market, despite it being the world's biggest producer of the
grain and having much lower labour costs. He says the company isn't aiming to compete
"head-to-head" with Asian manufacturers.

"We are not about ... trying to feed the masses with a low-priced commodity," he says. "We are
growing a crop in Australia.

"We are converting it in Australia by adding value to it, packing it, etc, and then we are looking to sell
it as a proposition to a large population of increasingly affluent people, who value the provenance, if
you like, the clean environment that we're in."

SunRice has recovered from the worst drought to hit the Riverina in 100 years, during which rice
production collapsed from 1.5 million tonnes in 2002 to 19,297 tonnes in 2008. It has cut its debt and
strengthened its balance sheet. Net profit rose 8.5 per cent to $16.3 million for the six months to
October 13 last year compared with the same period in 2012. Revenue was 6.8 per cent higher at
$554.3 million.

Page187of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Gordon attributed the success to the company's investment in new products, which were not only
proving popular at home but internationally, as well. SunRice had launched a range of gourmet,
premium and quinoa- and chia-blended rice.

"Our total supply chain isn't the cheapest in the world but we should have the smarts to develop
enough value-add in our products that we get consumers in different markets to value it and pay us
enough that we can make a good return to our growers and make a profit," he says.

Other changes SunRice has made include introducing upright resealable packs that take up less
space on supermarket shelves than traditional pillow packs, as well as improving the range of
semi-prepared meals and snacks.

"You have got to be first to market with something that consumers value and will pay for," he says.
"As soon as you stop doing that, then you start falling back on 'how do I take cost out of the
business' as being your only play.

"We always look to being more efficient. An amount of efficiency helps to pay for the investment in
top-line development and, if you are pulling costs out as well as growing your top line, then your
margins start to widen, start to improve, and, if you're selling more volume at higher margins, then
you make more money."

While the Department of Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry has forecast Australian food production
will leap 77 per cent by 2050, challenges for growers and processors remain, NAB agribusiness
economist Vyanne Lai says, believing the government has more of a role to play in reducing the input
costs of manufacturers.

"The actual financial support going into the sector from the government is very limited," she says. "At
the same time we are competing with larger producing countries that are already enjoying the
economies of scale, and are getting a lot of support in terms of subsidies and price supports.

"It just means the input prices of those processing plants are higher because they have to pay a
higher farm-gate price for raw materials."

But Helou is adamant the government should steer clear of financially supporting companies. "I am
strongly opposed to governments bailing out companies. That's not their business.
"Their business is to provide the policy framework ... the industrial-relations environment, the
free-trade-agreement environment, the framework of an environment that shapes an industry.
"We will make the investment and we will call the strategy. That's the role of business."

NS

RE
PUB
AN

c312 : External Markets | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types |
nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020140214ea2f0004z

Page188of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.