New Australian Grape and Wine Authority (AGWA)

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

New Australian Grape and Wine Authority (AGWA)

Katherine-Anne Waldron
1,188 words
10 August 2014
Mondaq Business Briefing
BBPUB
English
(c) 2014 Mondaq Ltd

AGWAAGWA ActOn 1 July 2014, the Australian Grape and Wine Authority () was established, assuming
the functions of Wine Australia Corporation and the Grape and Wine Research and Development
Corporation pursuant to the Grape and Wine Legislation Amendment (Australian Grape and Wine
Authority) Act 2013 ().
The establishment of AGWA has resulted in a single consolidated body to support the Australian wine
industry, combining:

GWRDCresearch and development functions previously conducted by the Grape and Wine Research
Development Corporation ()
WACmarketing and export oversight previously undertaken by Wine Australia Corporation (), including
the continued use of the Wine Australia brand and intellectual property.
The formation of AGWA was proposed in 2012 by key industry bodies, Wine Grape Growers Australia
and the Winemakers' Federation of Australia, to facilitate the industry realising various economies of
scale, developing and following a coordinated strategy in which both research and development and
marketing functions are brought together, as well as to ensure that progressively diminishing levy
payments observed in recent times did not result in a reduced service offering to industry.

AGWA is a Commonwealth statutory authority which, like other Rural Research and Development
Corporations, will be funded through a combination of levies on production and Commonwealth funding
for research and development activities. The organisation will have a budget of $34.7 million in 2014-15,
including approximately $11.5 million provided by Commonwealth. This represents a reduction of the
previous combined annual funding of GWRDC and WAC of approximately $3.5 million.

The formation of AGWA reflects a collective effort to preserve important resources for an industry which is
currently facing significant structural and commercial challenges. In particular, the Australian wine
industry has been challenged by the over-supply of both grapes and wine making capacity which has
driven prices down, and made it difficult for many producers to meet their cost of production. This is, in
part, a consequence of the highly fragmented nature of the industry which is made up of a number of
small producers who do not benefit from the economies of scale that bigger producers can access and do
not have strong avenues for distribution, while larger producers do not always have the flexibility to easily
respond to changing market conditions.

Similarly, the high Australian dollar has caused difficulties for Australian producers competing in the
export market where relative buying power has moved unfavourably for Australian wines. Australian wine
has traditionally been a favourite "value for money" product, however with the high Australian dollar
traditional competitors have once again become competitive in this regard. History suggests that where
price parity is reached between Australian and French wines, the French equivalent will usually be
preferred by international buyers. In addition, there has been increased competition from other wine
exporting countries and, in fact, a recent study funded by GWRDC found that the value of Australian wine
exports to countries other than China actually decreased by$1.3 billion between 2007 and 2012. A more
positive story in exports is in China, to which wine exports grew by 333% in value in the same period and
reflected 6% of total wine exports1.

Page76of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Although these market forces are likely to continue to impact the industry for some time, and the industry
is in a state of transformation and rationalisation as a consequence, the wine industry remains Australia's
fifth biggest agricultural exporting sector, a $4.2 billion industry and is responsible for creating 54,000
jobs across Australia - primarily in regional communities. A strong statutory authority with clear strategies
and directions can only benefit the industry and assist its members to manage the numerous challenges
ahead.

AGWA's functions have been clearly identified in the AGWA Act and include:

Research and Development
investigating and evaluating requirements for grape or wine research and development
coordinating or funding grape and wine research and development
reporting to Parliament, the Minister and representative organisations on grape and wine research and
development and the impact on the grape or wine industries of any research and development activities.

Marketing
facilitating the commercialisation of grape and wine research and development
promoting the consumption and sale of grape products (both domestically and overseas).

Compliance

controlling the export of grape products from Australia, including compliance with the Food Standards
Code
licensing exporters and issuing permits for Australian Wine and Brandy exports

operating a labelling integrity program, to prevent false and misleading labelling and ensure compliance
with the AGWA Act restrictions on how wine can be described

maintaining the Register of Protected Geographical Indications and Other Terms, which restricts the use
of certain indications in labelling wine products
supporting the Geographical Indications Committee which defines each of the wine grape producing
regions of Australia.
AGWA is currently in its establishment phase, with the chair and board of directors appointed for an initial
term of three months to facilitate the establishment of the new entity. The Company has announced the
appointment of Andreas Clark (formerly WAC's Acting Chief Executive Officer) as Acting Chief Executive
Officer for an initial period of three months to establish the authority and ensure continuity of existing
services to the wine sector.

The establishment of AGWA and the merger of the functions of two significant industry bodies is
demonstrative of a collective desire to consolidate in order to reduce red tape and unnecessary
duplication of administration. This is not unique to the wine industry, and in July 2013 Sugar Research
Australia was formed which established a similarly streamlined and consolidated entity absorbing the
functions of BSES Limited, Sugar Research and Development Corporation and the research elements of
Sugar Research Limited.

It remains quite likely in our opinion that other rural research and development corporations and industry
bodies may take steps towards consolidation of some their functions or find other ways to realise similar
efficiencies. While future mergers may not result in a consolidated entity like AGWA,we expect that a
number of bodies may reach agreements to share facilities and resources, such as back-office and
administrative support, to ensure their ability to continue to deliver the same level of service despite
reductions in Commonwealth support and levy revenue.

Footnote
1Centaurus Partners, Wine Industry Report: Expert Report on the Profitability and Dynamics of the
Australian Wine Industry (prepared for the Winemakers Federation of Australia) (August 2013),
Winemakers' Federation of Australia

This publication does not deal with every important topic or change in law and is not intended to be relied
upon as a substitute for legal or other advice that may be relevant to the reader's specific circumstances.

Page77of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.If you have found this publication of interest and would like to know more or wish to obtain legal advice
relevant to your circumstances please contact one of the named individuals listed.

Ms Katherine-Anne Waldron

Holding Redlich

Level 6,

277 William Street

Melbourne

3000

AUSTRALIA

Tel: 39321 9999

Fax: 39321 9900

E-mail: inquiries@holdingredlich.com.au

URL: www.holdingredlich.com.au

Click Here for related articles

(c) Mondaq Ltd, 2014 - Tel. +44 (0)20 8544 8300 - http://www.mondaq.com , 2014 - Tel. +44 (0)20 8544
8300 -

CO
IN

holred : Justice Services Pty Ltd
i835 : Legal Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | i426 : Wine | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco |
ialco : Alcoholic Beverages/Drinks | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c23 : Research/Development
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Real Estate and Construction

NS
RE
IPD
PUB Mondaq Limited
AN

Document BBPUB00020140811ea8a00006

Page78of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.