WHAT IT MEANS FOR OUR STATE

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
WHAT IT MEANS FOR OUR STATE

609 words
17 November 2014
The Advertiser
ADVTSR
Advertiser
5
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

WINE SA annual alcohol exports: $1.2 billion Winemakers are playing catch-up with producers from
Chile and New Zealand, whose governments have secured tariff reductions in China. That means
Aussie wine must overcome a 14 per cent price premium to make a sale in China.
Wine Australia chief executive Paul Evans said if the tariff disadvantage eased under an FTA, growing
demand in China would be a boon for both the top-end and bulk wine exports.

“It’s a consensus view in the industry that we are in oversupply and our export industry has declined,” he
said. “If we can grow demand in an emerging, massive market, that will do our wines a world of good.”
MINERALS SA annual exports: $2.1 billion South Australia’s key copper and iron ore commodities are
already very important to China, according to SA Chamber of Mines and Energy CEO Jason Kuchel.

But a beneficial trade agreement would also help the local resources industry by dropping transport and
business costs.
“I’m keen to see what positives there might be in there and I imagine there will be some,” he said. “It
might be in terms of investment or it might be in terms of the cost of procuring goods from China that
might be used in the mining sector.” MANUFACTURING SA annual exports: $2.9 billionStephen Myatt,
Director of Australian Industry Group, South Australian Branch, said that some of his organisation’s
members were nervous about the anticipated agreement.

“On the one hand, members are hopeful that it will open up export and investment opportunities.

“However, there is a concern that it could create a sudden loss of competitiveness and exposure to
unfair competition in our domestic market.” Anthony Kittel, the chief executive of manufacturer REDARC
Electronics, has mixed feelings.
“We could get flooded with cheaper Chinese product, which would further put pressure on our
manufacturing sector, particularly electronics.”
EDUCATION SA annual exports: $879 million Education is the state’s biggest export service and
executive director of the Institute for International Trade at the University of Adelaide, David Morfesi,
believes that institutions like his stand to benefit under a free-trade agreement.

“The University of Adelaide is the second-largest employer in South Australia,” he said.

“Liberalising education services between the two countries would be a positive thing.”
WHEAT SA annual exports $1.3 billion Even before an FTA is agreed, low tariffs already apply to
wheat exports to China.

However, the wheat industry would enjoy extra demand from the local livestock industry generated by
an anticipated boost to livestock export trade under an FTA, according to Grain Producers SA Chief
Executive Darren Arney. “There’s a flow-on effect,” he said.

Page69of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“If you’ve got more cows eating grain, that will support a price increase.”

MEAT SA annual exports $478m Livestock SA President Richard Halliday believes access to the
Chinese market would be a boon, given its scale.

“They’re one of the world’s largest consumers of raw product,” he said. “As far as agriculture is
concerned, it’s an enormous opportunity.”
CONSUMERS SA population: 1.7 million Under an FTA, South Australians could expect cheaper cars,
computers and whatever Chinese megafactories pump out next, Institute for International Trade
executive director David Morfesi says.

“If you take away a percentage of the tax on a good, that can easily translate to the savings to the
consumer, so the price of goods goes down,” he said.Under an FTA, not only would Chinese goods be
cheaper, locally made goods that have Chinese components or ingredients would also drop in price.

NS

RE

PUB
AN

c312 : External Markets | e512 : Physical Trade | gtrade : Tariffs/Trade Barriers | mgroil : Grains/Edible
Oils Markets | c31 : Marketing/Markets | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e51 : Trade/External
Payments | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gdip : International Relations | gpir :
Politics/International Relations | m14 : Commodity Markets | m141 : Agricultural Commodity Markets |
mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E
Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | nz : New Zealand | saustr : South Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz
: Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging
Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document ADVTSR0020141116eabh0002t

Page70of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.