COUNTDOWN FOR ‘PRINCE’ OF TURF

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
COUNTDOWN FOR ‘PRINCE’ OF TURF

PETER CAMERON
315 words
14 September 2014
Courier Mail
COUMAI
CourierMail
21
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

NATHAN Tinkler sightings in Brisbane means the countdown has begun for the Magic Millions sellout
of his Patinack Farm thoroughbred empire. MM auctioneer David Chester has banged his drum
through all points in Asia in preparation for the Tinkler sale at Gold Coast in a fortnight.

While Tinkler (pictured) was spotted in Jags and Mercs around swish Moray St, New Farm, Chester
was driving the MM message through Hong Kong, Macau, Malaysia and Singapore.

“There will be 560 horses with prices totally unreserved, including the 350 racing stock,’’ Chester told
Traps from China. The Sept 28-Oct 1 sellout at the MM Gold Coast complex is ironic. The Tinkler MM
splurge at the 2008 sales almost saved the company’s bacon. Tinkler contributed almost half the $40
million turnover as the bloodstock company fought back from the financial chills of the global financial
crisis and horse flu.
The blue, green and gold Patinack colours starred on all major Australian tracks. But when debts
started piling up and a mystery Middle Eastern buyer for the Patinack empire failed to produce the
cash, MM chairman Gerry Harvey declared enough was enough.
Along the way, Tinkler’s coal empire sustained ups and downs and his backing for the Newcastle
Knights NRL team began to falter.
MM fortunes have seldom looked brighter with the company aligning itself with the Channel 7 network.
Seven bosses are sidestepping rumours the company wants to form a betting network via cable
telecaster TVN or with a takeover bid for well-branded Tabcorp, which runs the NSW-Victorian TABs
and Sky Channel cable TV.Tinkler, 38, prefers the New Farm apartment complex “Pietra’’ when in
Brisbane. The address is better known as the base of so-called Tahitian Prince Joel Barlow, who was
prescribed 14 years of jail treatment for relieving Queensland Health of $17 million.

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document COUMAI0020140914ea9e0004y

Page117of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.