Bega grows its bio-health

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

EARLY GENERAL NEWS
Bega grows its bio-health

Andrew Marshall
635 words
30 October 2014
The Land
FTLAND
19
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

BEGA Cheese is making the most of its debt-free balance sheet to launch a new business division
focused on dairy and non-dairy bio-nutrient products.
Non-dairy products may include specialist grain and animal protein micro-nutritional extracts to
complement dairy proteins needed by the booming "nutriceutical" ingredient market, including
nutritional formula makers.

The diversification push has already seen Bega ramp up its focus on extracting micro-nutritional
protein components from milk solids, bolstering its long-established position in the infant formula
and lactoferrin protein ingredient markets.

Bega is now one of the world's bigger producers of lactoferrin, which sells for more than $600,000 a
tonne (compared to conventional bulk milk powder at $3000/t).
High-value dairy nu-tritional production at its Tatura plant in northern Victoria increased by 23 per
cent in 2013-14 after upgrades to the site's lactoferrin extraction and demineralised whey powder
capacities.
In April, the NSW farmer-based company also began blending and canning its own branded infant
and nutritional powders at Derrimut in Melbourne, receiving export accreditation from China in July.
Buoyed by its growing nutritional powder business and other value-added product sales, Bega
recorded a 6.5pc rise in revenue to $1.06 billion and paid a 13.3pc increased total shareholder
dividend of 8.5 cents a share for 2013-14.
A $100 million payout (and $44m profit) from January's sale of its 17.5pc stake in Warrnambool
Cheese and Butter also left the company with funds to invest in capacity upgrades and $8m in net
cash assets.

Executive chairman Barry Irvin (pictured)?told this week's annual general meeting Bega had
refreshed its strategic plan for the next six years, adding bio-nutritionals and "science-based
innovation" to its core focus of cheese, whey powder and nutritional products.

New micro-nutrition products on the radar, depending on research projects with university partners
and others, may include colostrum, lipid vitamins and amino globular proteins.
Mr Irvin noted the business balance spanning cheddar, cream cheese, bulk cream, milk powder
and protein concentrates had optimised value-added opportunities available from its milk pool,
placing Bega in a better position than many of its competitors when global dairy commodity prices
slumped about 45 per cent this year.
"While the company's product mix did not allow us to fully exploit the extreme upside of record
powder prices (in early 2014) we were able to maintain a competitive position in the market," he said.

Page17of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.However, Russian trade sanctions, big increases in global production in the past year and dairy
stockpiles in sectors of the Chinese market are expected to flatten Bega's profits after a stellar
2013-14.
Although he expected global dairy prices to improve within six months, Mr Irvin tipped Bega's
normalised profit for the 2014-15 year would be broadly in line with fiscal 2014's $42.1m.
"Our view remains there is strong underlying demand for dairy products, particularly in Asia.
To help keep pace with that dairy demand Bega has signed up more than 90pc of its suppliers to a
$25m program to lift milk production 20pc via a three-year sustainable improvement plan involving
regular on-farm audits and bonus payments of three cents a litre.
Meanwhile, newly-listed Aust- ralian Dairy Farms began trading on the Australian Securities
Exchange with its initial 20c shares peaking around 24c each.
The farming company, based on two dairy farms at Brucknell in south-west Victoria, plans to
acquire enough land to take its production to 50m litres a year by 2016.
It has attracted US-based Och-Ziff Capital Management Group as a key investor with a 9pc stake.

IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i413 : Dairy Products | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp :
Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products
gnutr : Nutrition | gcat : Political/General News | gfod : Food/Drink | ghea : Health | glife :
Living/Lifestyle
nswals : New South Wales | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FTLAND0020141029eaau00021

Page18of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.