Rise and rise of the Incredible Bulk

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Features
Rise and rise of the Incredible Bulk

Victoria Moore
1,294 words
1 February 2014
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
7
English
The Daily Telegraph © 2014. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

Increasingly, wine is shipped to the UK vacuum–packed in huge tanks, then bottled here. But how does
this affect the taste?
Ch–chink. Clatter. Burrrr.

CAh, the sound of bottles being filled with liquorice–and–eucalyptus–scented Australian shiraz at the
highly efficient rate of six million a week. Step outside this gleaming facility and you won't be hit by
warm air, though. There are no kangaroos, just a few raucous grey seagulls and a flat, damp
dockscape. We're not in New South Wales but Avonmouth, the port on the edgeBristol.

The bottling plant, owned by Accolade (formerly Constellation Wines), is the biggest of a handful around
the country that receive wine shipped in vast flexi–tanks and repackage it into bottles and boxes
destined for supermarket shelves. The phenomenon of "The Incredible Bulk", as it has been called, has
led to global bulk wine exports rising from 560 million to 1.24 billion litres in a decade, according to
Rabobank which published a report on the subject, noting that the main demand comes from Britain,
Germany, the United States and China.
You can tell if your wine has been bottled on these shores because the label on the back must by law
announce it, though it usually does so in minuscule print. Chances are if you buy wine in supermarkets
you will have had one. Accolade in Avonmouth bottles not just its own brands (which include Hardy's
and Echo Falls) but also those of Treasury Wine Estates (who own Lindeman's and Beringer),
Sainsbury's and Morrisons. Last February Asda became the first retailer to own its own UK bottling
plant, in Norfolk.

Greencroft Bottling in Co Durham packs around 100million litres a year that go into pub groups as well
as retailers. Tesco, which estimates that about a quarter of all the wine it sells has been bottled on
these shores, uses a facility near the Manchester Ship Canal in Cheshire. You may have seen its head
of wine (a former naval officer) on Gregg Wallace's Supermarket Secrets standing astride a barge and
prodding the large 24,000–litre polypropylene bags in which the stuff arrives, "Look! It's vacuumpacked
so it feels completely solid." My more acidic colleagues have been teasing him about his "performance
on HMS Plonk".
Is that fair? Bulk wine arrives here from the New World, principally Chile and Australia but also
Argentina, South Africa, the US and New Zealand. By necessity – it is moved in 24,000 and 26,000–litre
tanks – it must have been produced in high volume. Almost exclusively, then, the cheap stuff. Last year
the average value of Australian wine exported here in bottles was A$3.82 (£2.02) a litre against the bulk
average of A$1.06 (56p) per litre (those are FOB – free on board – costs; that is, the cost of the
packaged wine before shipping).

It's a practice that allows supermarkets to create their own brands from leftovers in glut harvests. It also
gives flexibility in packaging and marketing (sizes, the chance to shout about a competition medal), as
Concha y Toro, the Chilean producer that imports Frontera and Isla Negra in bulk, points out. Some

Page83of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.also cite environmental concerns. In truth, the decision not to move heavy glass around the world is not
about being green, it's about cost. Oversupply coupled with extravagantly high duty (57 per cent of the
cost of the average £5 bottle sold in this country is pure tax) means that anyone hoping to sell wine
here must make every single penny really earn its keep.

"Bulk shipping is contentious in South Africa because it takes work away from the glass and bottling
industries," says Jo Wehring of Wines of South Africa (WOSA). "The reality, though, is that if you're not
competitive you're going to lose market share and that will also lead to a loss of jobs."
Last year 64 per cent of South Africa's wine exports to Britain arrived here as bulk wine; in 2012 it was
67 per cent, but a weak rand last year underwrote a slight drift back to bottling at source. For other
countries the trend continues to gather pace: bottled wine exports from Australia to Britain fell by 19 per
cent last year against a drop of four per cent for bulk, according to a new report, which fingers the
"continued shift to exporting in bulk" for the difference in performance.
What should we think about the quality of wine that is bottled here? It is true that, even if their volumes
permitted it, you would not catch artisan or fine wine producers letting their baby leave the winery in a
giant bag to be messed around with by someone else in another time zone. Bulk shipping can make
wine taste a bit flat. But I don't believe bottling in Britain is necessarily against the cheap–wine–drinker's
interests. Such commercial wines tend to be more stable and intert, so less likely to spoil.
Fierce competition means savings in shipping costs go into the wine, not the producer or retailer's
pocket. Also, technological developments have finessed the process. For example, oxidation is a threat
but Accolade claims that wine now picks up less than 0.1 parts per million of oxygen when it is
transferred into bottles.

"The monitoring of quality is now vastly more intricate," says WOSA's Wehring. "Bottled samples are
sent back to the Wine & Spirits Board in South Africa who check that the chemical analysis of the
product going to the consumer is the same as it was when it left the winery."
Mark Jarman of Morrisons also points out that wine bulk–shipped across the equator is less prone to
heat spoilage, as "the mass of liquid reduces the temperature variances. This is particularly helpful if a
ship is held up in port in the Far East."

In conclusion, on, a mixed bag. I'd never be thrilled to see the words, "bottled in the UK" but it's not
always bad news. Below the critical £6 level, shipping savings may mean you end up with a better drink
than if the wine had made the journey in glass.

What I've enjoyed most this week
Val de Pedron Monastrell 2012 Alicante, Spain (13.5%, £7.99, M&S, 283 stores)

Monastrell – mourvèdre, in France – often tastes dark and black, filled with tannin and a slight rustic
riffle. This one is very smooth and relaxed, ripe and comfortable. It has a little bit of oak – French – and
is rounded out with 5% syrah.

An easy–going Spanish red like this makes a good accompaniment to slow–cooked lamb or a meaty
fish like tuna.
Godello As Caixas 2012 Spain (13%, £9.99 or £7.99 when you buy two, Majestic)
A second Spanish wine, this one white, made in northwest Spain from the increasingly fashionable
godello, which tastes of ripe pears and white blossom. Think of this as an Iberian chablis, smooth and
buoyant in texture and refreshing to boot.

Zalze Shiraz/mourvèdre/ viognier 2012 South Africa (13.5%, £5.99 down from £7.99, Waitrose)

Bursting with life and intensity, this is a full–flavoured blend of two red and one white grape from South
Africa. The white adds a subtle fragrance and lift, somehow giving the other two grapes a bit more
space to move in. Slightly smoky with lots of black fruit. Very good at this discounted price.

Email victoria.moore@telegraph.co.uk

'The decision not to move glass around the world is not about being green: it's about cost'

IN

i6411 : Supermarkets/Grocery Stores | i6560011 : Shopping Malls/Superstores | i64 : Retail/Wholesale |
i641 : Food Retailing | i654 : Specialty Stores | i656 : Mixed Retailing | iretail : Retail

Page84of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

PUB
AN

austr : Australia | safr : South Africa | uk : United Kingdom | africaz : Africa | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz
: Australia/Oceania | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | eecz :
European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | souafrz : Southern Africa | weurz : Western Europe
Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Document DT00000020140201ea21000hf

Page85of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.