Mining slowdown threatens vision for Australian cities; Pilbara project

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY

LP

TD

WORLD NEWS
Mining slowdown threatens vision for Australian cities; Pilbara project

By Jamie Smyth
947 words
21 August 2014
Financial Times
FTFT
USA Ed1
02
English
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and
redistribute by email or post to the web.

Fall in investment could see initiative to inject life into a remote western region turn to dust, writes Jamie
Smyth
In a dusty industrial estate next to the world's biggest iron ore port in Western Australia's remote Pilbara
region, business has never been so bad.

"The rents got so high in the town that when the boom ended, businesses began to die off everywhere,"
says Jo Woodward, owner of Jems, a ramshackle building with an eviction notice stuck to its padlocked
gate that was until recently Port Hedland's only legal brothel. "Nothing is selling here now."

The demise of Jems, and of many other Pilbara businesses that have closed their doors following the
end of the country's mining investment boom , suggests Australia may struggle to realise one of its
flagship projects.

Port Hedland and neighbouring Karratha grew rapidly during a decade-long boom as workers flooded
into the Pilbara to construct the iron ore mines, railways and ports needed to feed Chinese demand for
steel. The fast-growing towns were chosen as a test bed for a key state initiative: creating two
sustainable cities of 50,000 people by 2035 in a remote region prone to resource booms and busts.
Western Australia's Pilbara Cities plan was launched in 2010 at the height of a boom driven by iron ore
and the discovery of natural gas off the coast. Several billion dollars have been spent on new hospitals,
roads and housing to transform the dusty mining towns of about 15,000 people each into living spaces
that attract families.
But fears are growing that the drop in mining construction and a recent decline in iron ore prices
threaten the future of the flagship project.

A lack of alternative sources of employment is likely to continue - businesses find it difficult to locate to
the remote cities given the high cost of electricity, transport and water. And although such infrastructure
exists, it has been built by the three big mining companies active in the region - BHP Billiton, Rio Tinto
and Fortescue Metals - and they guard it jealously.

BHP and Rio own and control thousands of kilometres of railway track across the Pilbara and have
successfully defeated legal attempts by other miners to open access to this infrastructure. All three
miners have built their own generators to power their mine operations.

"History shows this classic mine and boom phase is either followed by an evolution into multiple but
related industries, or a decline into ghost towns and tumbleweed," says Jemma Green, a researcher at
Western Australia-based Curtin University.

Pilbara 2050, a report co-authored by Ms Green, notes there are at least 87 ghost towns across the
state, most of them former mining towns. It warns that the region must diversify beyond iron ore and

Page405of416©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.gas, and embrace sectors such as tourism and agriculture, to ensure Port Hedland and Karratha do not
suffer a similar fate.

Attracting workers to put down roots in the Pilbara area has never been easy. It is remote - a two-hour
flight from Perth - and has a harsh climate, with summer temperatures topping 40C. Poor living
conditions and expensive accommodation has created a fly-in, flyout culture, whereby workers live on
temporary campsites and trailer parks on the edge of town.
"People today point the finger at the mining companies and say, 'You have all these people living in
camps', but when you go back five or six years there was no alternative," says Morag Lowe, owner of
the First National estate agent.

She says decades of political neglect, failure to invest in infrastructure and an initial reluctance by local
government to free up development land has almost squandered the boom.

Public investment under Pilbara Cities and private investment by the big miners is beginning to have an
impact. A sports stadium has been built, an art gallery has opened and luxury houses have been
constructed in Port Hedland to attract doctors to the town.

"We are focusing our efforts on the type of 'city-building' amenities and services such as parks and
cafés, which will ensure families want to come and live here," says Kelly Howlett, mayor of Port Hedland.
"A population of 50,000 is a realistic target. About 1,000 people make Western Australia their home
every week and they can't all go to Perth," she says.

But locals warn a cooling economy is putting this at risk. Rents have halved in Karratha, record numbers
of properties are listed for sale in both towns and some new housing developments lie empty.

Alan Richardson, who recently closed the Pilbara Echo newspaper he founded in Karratha, says things
are difficult. "If you talk to any small business that's not mining-related you'll see how hard it is," he
says.
Ms Green says creating a publicly controlled energy grid and electrifying the miners' railways would cut
operating costs for all businesses, including the miners. "At the moment, if any business wants to set up
in the Pilbara they need to build their own generator, which is hugely costly. But if the existing
infrastructure built by the miners could be pooled and shared it would be a game-changer for the
region," she says.
But the big miners, which make tens of billions of dollars in profit every year from the region's iron ore
reserves, say such moves could disrupt business.

As the economy sours, some question whether there will be enough political commitment to deliver the
Pilbara Cities vision.
Jamie Smyth talks to Aboriginals hurt by the mining boom, ft.com/video

IN

NS

RE
IPD
IPC
PUB
AN

i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | imet : Mining/Quarrying | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources
reqrmm : Suggested Reading Metals/Mining | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr :
Suggested Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Company News
CN
The Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)
Document FTFT000020140821ea8l0001e

Page406of416©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.