City & Country: Property Briefs

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

City & Country: Property Briefs

Compiled by Amy Tan
952 words
9 June 2014
The Edge Singapore
EDGESI
English
(c) 2014 The Edge Publishing Pte Ltd. All Rights Reserved.

Hiap Hoe signs contract with Starwood Hotels for hotel in Melbourne
Listed Singapore property group Hiap Hoe has received regulatory approval from the Melbourne
government for a planning permit to redevelop the site at 6-22 Pearl River Road in Melbourne.

The project in Melbourne (above) will comprise a seven-storey, 269-room hotel and two residential
towers of 43 and 36 storeys with a total of 471 units called Marina Tower. Hiap Hoe has also signed a
long-term management contract with Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide to have the hotel branded
Four Points by Sheraton Melbourne Docklands. The project will offer panoramic views of Victoria
Harbour and will be designed by award-winning architectural firm dKO.
The proposed development will be the group’s second integrated development, following its mixed-use
development with hotels and offices at Zhongshan Park in Singapore.

HDB resale prices fall for fourth consecutive month

Resale prices for HDB flats dropped for the fourth month running, a decline seen across all HDB
property types, according to the Singapore Real Estate Exchange (SRX) HDB Flash Report released
on June 5. HDB resale prices for May fell 1.2% over the previous month, marking a two-year low since
April 2012. Prices for executive condos declined the most at 2.8%; three- and four-room flat prices
dipped 0.8%.

Compared to peak prices in April 2013, prices have declined 6.5%. Meanwhile, prices have dropped
2.7% since the beginning of this year. “The main cause for falling prices continues to be loan restrictions
such as the mortgage servicing ratio of 30% that effectively limits the loan amount that buyers are able
to secure,” says Eugene Lim, ERA’s key executive officer.
Resale volume also dropped 11.1% m-o-m, with 1,320 HDB flats sold last month, from April’s 1,484
units. Lim points out that the large supply of build-to-order (BTO) flats and a three-year waiting period for
newly minted permanent residents to buy resale flats have diverted demand for resale HDB flats.
“Singles have also shunned resale HDB flats for two-room BTO flats,” he says.

HDB units in Queenstown, Clementi and Jurong East bucked the downward price trend. These regions
saw positive median Transaction Over X-Value (TOX) of $6,500, $1,000 and $1,000, respectively,
according to the report. The median TOX measures whether people are overpaying or underpaying the
SRX estimated market value. Lim reckons that Jurong East’s growth as a regional centre has had a
positive impact on HDB resale prices in the area, while Clementi and Queenstown have always been
popular mature estates.

Cushman & Wakefield expands to Malaysia
Real estate services firm Cushman & Wakefield (C&W) announced on June 3

that it had expanded into Malaysia with the opening of its maiden office in Kuala Lumpur, its 35th office
in Asia-Pacific. This move is in line with the company’s five-year strategic plan, which includes
expansion of its business in the region.

Page40of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“Malaysia is a key market for both our investor and occupier clients. It’s the third-largest economy in
Southeast Asia and it is going to play a key role in the Asean Economic Community,” says Arsh
Chaudhry, executive managing director for C&W in Southeast Asia. In addition to growth and
development opportunities in the Klang Valley, C&W sees opportunities in Iskandar Malaysia, which has
been earmarked by the government as a key economic growth region.
Kallang Riverside launched for sale

Developed by Singapore-Johore Express (SJE), which operates buses that shuttle between Singapore
and Malaysia, the freehold Kallang Riverside condominium in Kampong Bugis is a redevelopment of
SJE’s former factory. Launched a fortnight ago, 150 units were released for sale. Of these, 99 have
been snapped up at $1,900 to $2,600 psf. The freehold project comprises 212 residential units and
seven commercial shops on the ground level.

Scheduled for completion in 2018, the project has attracted investor interest, given its city-fringe location,
freehold tenure and the fact that there has been no launch of private condos in the area in the last seven
years. Gross rental yields are also projected to range from 3% to 4% a year, according to property
agents. Kallang Riverside is marketed by Huttons Real Estate.
The last condo that was launched in that neighbourhood of Kallang was Wing Tai’s Riverine by the Park,
in mid-2007. When it was launched, prices hovered at $1,400 to $1,500 psf. The 30-storey, 96-unit
Riverine by the Park was completed in 2010. The latest transaction in the freehold condo was last
June, when a 1,776 sq ft unit on the 27th floor changed hands for $3.2 million ($1,802 psf), according to
URA Realis.
China top market for expanding retailers in Asia-Pacific, says CBRE
In Asia-Pacific, China remains the top priority for retailer expansion this year, while emerging markets in
Southeast Asia are also attracting stronger attention, according to CBRE’s retail report released on June
4. According to the report, 64% of respondents plan to open a new store in China this year, despite the
slower economic growth.
“China continues to grow at a rapid pace and is luring international retailers

looking to tap the booming consumer spending and a growing appetite for western fashion products and
services,” says Jonathan Hsu, CBRE director, Asia Pacific Research. China is ahead of Vietnam, Hong
Kong and Singapore, which tied for second place, with 33% of retailers planning a new store opening in
each of these markets.

CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

hotinv : Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc
ihotel : Hotel Construction | i501 : Building Construction | iconst : Construction | icre : Real
Estate/Construction | i66 : Hotels/Restaurants | i665 : Lodgings | ilea : Leisure/Arts/Hospitality
c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | ncdig : Corporate Digests | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat
: Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
singp : Singapore | austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific |
asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
The Edge Publishing Pte Ltd
Document EDGESI0020140611ea690000d

Page41of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.