Minotaur slams slow approvals

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Minotaur slams slow approvals

BARRY FITZGERALD, exploration
365 words
8 May 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
18
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

SOUTH Australia’s approvals process for exploration land access has been slammed by one of the
state’s most active and highly credentialled explorers, Australian Securities Exchange-listed
Minotaur Exploration.

Managing director Andrew Woskett said a logjam had been created, stifling exploration activity.

Speaking at the Paydirt 2014 South Australian Resources and Energy Investment Conference, Mr
Woskett conceded the problem was recognised by government and regulators.

“That is a good positive sign, but the current difficulties are shameful,’’ Mr Woskett said.
He said reinterpretation two years ago of the Native Title Act, which required Native Title Mining
Agreements to be in place before drilling could begin, was the main culprit to the “mounting logjam of
access approvals’’.

He said official figures showed that as recently as March, only 170 NTMAs were in place for 899
exploration licences in the state.

“In our own experience, it took Minotaur two years to gain approval to drill a single metallurgical test
hole into a magnetite deposit,” he said.

“That length of delay meant the approval, by the time it came through, was of academic interest. The
investor window for magnetite projects had slammed shut well and truly beforehand.

“However, that legislative requirement for access rights to drill that one hole cost Minotaur $100,000
in legals and native title meetings costs.” OZ Minerals said on the first day of the conference that it
had stepped up the promotion of its proposed sale of a stake in the $3 billion Carrapateena
copper-gold project in SA.

Chief executive Terry Burgess also revealed that the sales process had attracted “significant
interest’’ from several groups around the world, and some groups were engaged in presentations
and site visits.

“We have said that all options for a partnership with one of these groups are on the table, depending
upon what creates the most value for our shareholders,’’ Mr Burgess told the conference on
Tuesday.
Much of his speech to the conference concerned China’s demand for copper.Mr Burgess would not
be drawn later on whether Chinese interests had been part of the Carrapateena site visits or had
visited OZ’s data room.

CO
IN

minotr : Minotaur Exploration Ltd
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying

Page48of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS
RE
PUB
AN

ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | saustr : South Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140507ea5800053

Page49of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.