Southern Cross on forum delegates’ lips

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

WestReg
Southern Cross on forum delegates’ lips

Jarrod Lucas
512 words
9 August 2014
Kalgoorlie Miner
KALGOO
First
5
English
(c) 2014 West Australian Newspapers Limited

The emergence of three gold projects and the potential sale of Cliffs Natural Resources’
Koolyanobbing iron ore operation put the Southern Cross region firmly in the spotlight at this
week’s Diggers and Dealers Mining Forum.
First cab off the rank was China’s Hanking Gold Mining, which this month restarts the Southern
Cross operations it acquired from St Barbara for $22.5 million last year.

ASX-listed Watpac secured the $29 million mining services contract for the Cornishman open pit,
creating 50 jobs.

Cornishman will feed the 2.2Mtpa Marvel Loch processing plant over the next 19 months ahead of
a production ramp-up by Hanking, a subsidiary of Hong Kong-listed steel producer China Hanking
Holdings.

Southern Cross, with its immense endowment about 200km west of Kalgoorlie-Boulder, was also
on the lips of Evolution Mining, Convergent Minerals and Southern Cross Goldfields at Diggers.
Evolution, the fourth-biggest ASX-listed gold miner behind Newcrest, Northern Star Resources and
African-focused Endeavour Mining, has walked away from talks for a potential sale of its Edna
May mine.
Deutsche Bank had put a price tag of about $68 million on Edna May, which poured its first gold
bar in 2010 under Catalpa Resources ownership.

But industry sources suggested the Jake Klein-led Evolution would have fallen well short of that
valuation based on discounting in the gold sector.
Evolution’s market value was $552 million yesterday.

Convergent and Southern Cross Goldfields might be lesser known, but both have projects which
have grown legs in the past month.

Convergent expects to call for tenders for underground development and construction of surface
infrastructure early next year for its Blue Vein gold mine, with start-up priced at $59.8 million.

Taking a longer-term view is Brisbane-based Southern Cross Goldfields, which last month secured
a $60 million debt funding agreement, expected to lead to production at its long-delayed Marda
project in 2017.

Southern Cross Goldfields, which merged with Polymetals last August, will initially focus on
bringing its Mt Boppy project in central NSW on-stream in the first half of next year before cash flow
funds Marda development.

Page93of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.US miner Cliffs Natural Resources’ Koolyanobbing iron ore operation is up in the air after dissident
investors won a battle for control of the $US2.6 billion company.

It has not taken long for fingers to be pointed at potential suitors, namely Mineral Resources, which
operates the Carina mine near Southern Cross and this year lost out in its surprise tilt for Aquila
Resources.
Iron ore shapes as a potential game-changer in the emerging Yilgarn province, freeing the
Goldfields from the shackles of gold and nickel price cycles, but this year’s price fall for the
seemingly bullet-proof commodity may have spooked investors.
There was renewed optimism, however, with BC Iron chief executive Morgan Ball predicting at
Diggers the iron ore price would head above $US100 per tonne over the next six months as
demand for the Pilbara miner’s product remained strong.

ccic : Cliffs Natural Resources Inc | convmn : Convergent Minerals Limited | nostre : Northern Star
Resources Ltd | scrosg : Southern Cross Goldfields Limited | westml : Evolution Mining Limited |
zghwzd : China Hanking Holdings Ltd
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | igoldm : Gold Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying | i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | i2114 : Copper Ore/Nickel Ore Mining
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document KALGOO0020140808ea890000m

CO

IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

Page94of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.