Chinese housing fear ‘unfounded’

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Chinese housing fear ‘unfounded’

Damon Kitney INVESTMENT
523 words
17 November 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
24
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

THE Australian entrepreneur who developed a now booming global real estate portal for Chinese
investors says there could be a “racist’’ element to the backlash from first-home buyers against soaring
investment from China in the nation’s property market.
Shanghai-based Andrew Taylor, co-founder of juwai.com — now China’s largest international
property website for Chinese buyers — said he believed the backlash against Chinese investors in
Australian property was ‘‘not based on any data’’.

“No one was ever complaining when it was people from Canada, from the US and the UK investing in
larger sums than what the Chinese are doing now. No one ever batted an eyelid. So there is a
question mark on whether there is some element of racism or people just not being familiar with the
audience,’’ Mr Taylor told The Australian after addressing a forum at the G20 in Brisbane.
“When you have a heated property market in Australia that is difficult for first-home buyers, it is easy
to start picking on people who look a bit different and are easy to identify rather than a seasoned
Australian investor who is buying up a whole heap of first-home buyer stock and then renting it out to
the people that couldn’t afford to buy it.’’ He said that for every example of purchases involving
Chinese investors, “I can give you three or four local examples that are having the same or even
greater impact’’.
Chinese investors have been the largest source of foreign demand for Australian property this year
and Credit Suisse has forecast that Chinese nationals will buy about $44 billion in residential real
estate over the next seven years.
Juwai, which has been asked by the Foreign Investment Review Board to provide data on Chinese
property purchases in Australia, is planning to release a report next year that Mr Taylor said would
offer transparency “to the whole global as well as Australian Chinese property buyer’’.
It will show that international Chinese property buyers wanting to purchase in Australia have an
average budget of $US2.6 million ($3m) whereas Chinese residents within Australia have a much
lower budget of around $US800,000 and are largely focused on purchases around the $US500,000
level.
Juwai was launched in 2011 and aims to provide a portal for overseas real estate marketers to reach
Chinese property buyers. Its co-founder is Simon Henry.
Mr Taylor is a former executive of online real estate firmREA Group. While Australian property has
long been a popular choice for Chinese money, the flow of investment has allegedly increased
following the Chinese government’s crackdown on corruption.
But Mr Taylor said allegations of illegitimate Chinese transfers of money into the Australian market
had been overplayed.“I don’t accept the premise that there is evidence of people funnelling money
illegally into the Australian property market,” he said. “Let’s come up with evidence of that. If they did,

Page71of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.I would suggest they look at the Canadians, the US, the UK guys who have been doing it for a long
time before this.’’

NS
RE

PUB
AN

ereal : Real Estate Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141116eabh0001j

Page72of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.