Woolies snaps up Chinese alcohol distributor Summergate; ACCC cracks down on Electronic Bazaar operator: Midday Roundup

HD

BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Woolies snaps up Chinese alcohol distributor Summergate; ACCC cracks down on
Electronic Bazaar operator: Midday Roundup
by SmartCompany
437 words
3 December 2014
Smart Company
SMACOM
English
© Copyright 2014 Private Media Partners Pty. Ltd. All Right Reserved.

Supermarket giant Woolworths has taken a bold step into the Chinese liquor market, purchasing
the country’s largest alcoholic drinks distributor Summergate through the Woolworths Liquor
Group.

Fairfax reports the deal, the price of which is undisclosed, is one of the first international
acquisitions by Woolworths, as it seeks to draw attention aware from its struggling domestic
supermarket and hardware operations.

Brad Banducci, managing director of Woolworths Liquor Group, told Fairfax Summergate
generates annual sales of around US$40 million ($47.3 million).

Summergate, which was founded in Shanghai in 1999, has 13 offices and 11 distribution centres
and employs more than 400 people. It represents around 80 alcohol brands, including Concha y
Toro and Chateau Masur.
“It is strategically important," Banducci said of the acquisition.

“It is an opportunity for us to build a long-term business in a market which has huge opportunity
and is close to us."

ACCC cracks down on Electronic Bazaar operator

The consumer watchdog is dragging the operator of an online electronics store to the Federal
Court for alleged breaches of Australian Consumer Law.

The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission alleges Dhruv Chopra, the operator of
electronicbazaar.com.au, mislead customers about their refund rights, as well as the extent of the
company’s liability for faulty goods.

 “Consumers are entitled to receive a refund, repair or replacement including when the goods
purchased are faulty or do not match their description," ACCC commissioner Sarah Court said in a
statement.

“Traders cannot impose terms and conditions that exclude or waive these consumer guarantees
under the Australian Consumer Law."

Shares up on open
Aussies have traded slightly higher this morning, buoyed by a positive lead from US equities.

But CMC Markets chief market analyst Ric Spooner, the positive influence of the US market is
being offset by concerns over weak commodity prices.
“Weaker oil prices overnight, serve as a reminder that, as with iron ore, corrective rallies tend can
be disappointingly weak in oversupplied commodity markets until producers actually begin to
reduce supply," Spooner said.

Page234of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“How the trading day pans out is likely to depend on economic data and on whether yesterday’s
bargain hunting in stocks outside the resource sector such as the major banks continues today."

The S&P/ASX 200 benchmark was up 39.2 points, or 0.7%, to 5320.5 points at 12.21 AEST. On
Tuesday, the Dow Jones closed up 102.75 points, or 0.58%, to 17879.6 points.

Follow SmartCompany on  Facebook ,  LinkedIn  and  Twitter .

CO
IN

RE

PUB
AN

wolwth : Woolworths Limited
i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i641 : Food Retailing | i6411 : Supermarkets/Grocery Stores | i654 :
Specialty Stores | iretail : Retail
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric
: BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Private Media Partners Pty Ltd.
Document SMACOM0020141203eac300003

Page235of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.