Iconic Central London skyscraper 'Principal Tower' launches in Asia

Iconic Central London skyscraper 'Principal Tower' launches in Asia

HD
WC 1,390 words
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

29 August 2014
06:10
ACN Newswire
ACNENG
English
(c) Copyright 2014 ACN Newswire All Rights Reserved.

TD

Rare residential investment opportunity by Foster + Partners
Hong Kong, Aug 28, 2014 - (ACN Newswire) - Brookfield Office Properties, Concord Pacific and W1
Developments, the joint developers for London skyscraper Principal Tower will launch their property
project coming September 2014 in Asia. The key markets for sales activity are Hong Kong, Singapore,
Beijing and Shanghai. Located in the Central London district and neighbouring Shoreditch - the
up-and-coming trendy zone of London, Principal Tower is set to be one of the most sought after
developments among property investors across Asia in recent years.

-- Exciting investment opportunity for Asian property investors to buy into a Zone 1 residential
development in the City of London

-- Foster + Partners, award-winning architecture and integrated design practice are both the architect and
interior designer for the development
-- Sales roadshows to take place in Asia; Hong Kong, Singapore, Beijing and Shanghai, in September
2014

"We are confident that Principal Tower will appeal to sophisticated Asian investors who appreciate the
exclusivity of the Central London property market. Surrounding the development are world-class
transportation links, including three underground stations within blocks away that connect with the
Liverpool Street Railway Station. There is also a major pipeline of new retail, residential and top-grade
commercial offerings as part of the wider comprehensive redevelopment scheme. This will translate into
strong yields and a solid rental market, underpinning growth in property prices. We are also partnering
with world renowned Foster + Partners, the architect and interior designer of the building, to ensure that
our product is unparalleled in design, quality, layout and finishing." said Christopher Murray, Managing
Director, W1 Developments who is in Asia ahead of the roadshow.
"Asia has the fastest-growing number of sophisticated investors looking to buy property beyond their
home markets. They currently represent 60% of London's overseas buyers. The housing prices in the
City, where Principal Tower is located, outperformed growth in other traditional residential areas at
15.3%. Principal Tower presents a great opportunity for Asian investors to tap into a high-quality property,
great investment with great potential for capital appreciation." said Tim Wright, Lead Director -
Residential Development & Investment, JLL, London.
Principal Tower will be Foster + Partners' first fully designed residential tower. Reaching a height of 175
metres, the tower will ensure expansive views as it will be one of the tallest residential buildings in
London. It and The Gherkin (30 St. Mary Axe), both designed by Foster and Partners, will forever be
regarded as iconic buildings that bookend the London City Centre.

The tower is part of a larger mixed development, Principal Place, which also consists of 600,000 sq ft of
office space and 20,000 sq ft of retail offerings. The development is jointly developed by Concord Pacific,
Canada's largest developer of multi-phased, master-planned residential communities, Brookfield Office
Properties, a developer and manager of premier office properties in the United States, Canada, Australia
and the United Kingdom, and W1 Developments, one of the leading property developers in Central
London.

Page384of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Prices for apartments at Principal Tower begin at GBP700,000.
Principal Tower will launch in Hong Kong on the 12th - 14th September at Statue Square & Alexandra
Room, 2/F, Mandarin Oriental Hotel. For sales enquiries, please contact JLL on +852 3759 0909.

For more images and information of Principal Tower, please refer to the link below:

https://www.dropbox.com/sh/6vv60g5newvg2kq/AACOQAxhXEnWwPufhyoKvdqYa?dl=0

About Principal Tower

Designed by world renowned architect Foster + Partners, Principal Place is London's next iconic city
complex featuring a perfect mix of residential and top grade office space, retail facilities and a half-acre
public piazza. Principal Tower, the 50-storey luxury residential establishment at Principal Place, will be
Foster + Partners' first fully designed residential tower, reaching 175 meters, making it one of the tallest
residential buildings in Central London. The development will have expansive views from Canary Wharf
in the East to St. Paul's and the Houses of Parliament in the West. The Principal Tower development
project is under a 50/50 joint venture management between Brookfield Office Properties ("BPO") and
Concord Pacific, Canada's largest community developer. BPO will be responsible for development and
project management while Concord Pacific undertakes sales and marketing activity supported by W1
Developments Inc. in London.

About Brookfield Office Properties

Brookfield Office Properties owns, develops and manages premier office properties in the United States,
Canada, Australia and the United Kingdom. Its portfolio is comprised of interests in 113 properties totaling
88 million square feet in the downtown cores of New York, Washington, D.C., Houston, Los Angeles,
Toronto, Calgary, Ottawa, London, Sydney, Melbourne and Perth, making Brookfield the global leader in
the ownership and management of office assets. Landmark properties include Brookfield Places in
Manhattan, Toronto and Perth, Bank of America Plaza in Los Angeles, Bankers Hall in Calgary and
Darling Park in Sydney. The company's common shares trade on the NYSE and TSX under the symbol
BPO. For more information, visit www.brookfieldofficeproperties.com.

About Concord Pacific
Concord Pacific is a Canadian headquartered developer of multi-phased, master-planned residential
communities. With more than 20,000 units built or currently under development, it is Canada's largest
urban community builder and has won numerous national and international awards for design and
excellence. Their development schemes are strategically designed to enhance the lifestyles of its
residents with innovative architecture and engaging public spaces of world-class scale and use. The
Group's legacy as an urban master-planned community developer began with Canada's largest urban
master-planned community, Concord Pacific Place in Vancouver, Canada. Second only in size to Concord
Pacific Place, Concord's City Place development in Toronto has continued the its skyline defining legacy
and confirmed its master-planning model. Concord continues to advance its model to numerous prime
communities and projects under development both nationally and internationally. For more information,
visit www.concordpacific.com.

About W1 Developments Ltd
W1 Developments Ltd is a London based property company that specialises in high-quality commercial
and residential developments. The W1 developments team has created more than 500,000 sq. ft. of
high-quality accommodation in London and is one of the leading property developers in Central London.
Its success comes from adapting global real estate concepts in order to provide London with imaginatively
designed buildings that deliver exceptional value for its customers. W1 Developments recently exchanged
contracts on Marylebone Square W1, a circa 1 acre site in one of the most sought after areas in Central
London, just off Marylebone High Street. The proposed prime mixed use development will be a joint
venture with Concord Pacific. W1's fundamental goal in its projects is to create distinction and value that
exceeds the local market rate. For additional info visit www.w1developments.com.

About Foster + Partners

Foster + Partners is one of the most innovative architectural practices in the world today and is led by
Founder and Chairman Norman Foster and a Partnership Board. Although the office has a large campus
in London, where it was first founded, today this is one of a global network of studios. Over the past five
decades the practice has pioneered a sustainable approach to architecture and ecology through a
strikingly wide range of work, from urban master plans, public infrastructure, airports, civic and cultural
buildings, offices and workplaces to private houses and product design. The studio has established an
international reputation with buildings such as the world's largest airport terminal at Beijing, Swiss Re's

Page385of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.London Headquarters, Hearst Headquarters in New York, Millau Viaduct in France, the German
Parliament in the Reichstag, Berlin, The Great Court at London's British Museum, Headquarters' for
HSBC in Hong Kong and London, and Commerzbank Headquarters in Frankfurt. The practice has
received over 675 awards for excellence and won over 120 national and international competitions since
its inception in 1967.

Contact:
Strategic Financial Relations Limited, Hong Kong

Cindy Lung +852 2864 4867 / 9282 4640 Email: cindy.lung@sprg.com.hk

Ming Chan +852 2864 4892 / 9380 8766 Email: ming.chan@sprg.com.hk

Karen Tang +852 2114 4951 / 9485 6393 Email: karen.tang@sprg.com.hk

Source: Principal Tower

CO crnabn : Brookfield Office Properties Inc. | bfpppz : Brookfield Property Partners L.P.
IN

i8500021 : Office Real Estate | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icireal : Commercial/Industrial Real Estate
| icre : Real Estate/Construction | ireest : Real Estate | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles |
i8150206 : Investment Trusts/Funds | i815020602 : Real Estate Investment Trusts | ifinal : Financial
Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
npress : Press Releases | ncat : Content Types
hkong : Hong Kong | china : China | austr : Australia | london : London (UK) | uk : United Kingdom | beijin :
Beijing | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz :
Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern
Asia | eecz : European Union Countries | eland : England | eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe

NS
RE

PUB Japan Corporate News Network K.K.
AN

Document ACNENG0020140828ea8s0005l

Page386of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.