'Nuclear option' being used as Clive Palmer's case reaches court

'Nuclear option' being used as Clive Palmer's case reaches court

25 November 2014
Australian Broadcasting Corporation Transcripts
ABCTRS
English
(c) 2014 Australian Broadcasting Corporation

Peter McCutcheon

HD
BY
WC 1,251 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

Queensland's Supreme Court begins a trial into allegations made by Clive Palmer's Chinese partners
who accuse him of taking their money to fund his political campaign, in a case in which both sides are
being described as using 'the nuclear option'.
LEIGH SALES, PRESENTER: Not so long ago, mining magnate Clive Palmer was at the height of his
powers. By his own account, a billionaire, with unprecedented clout in the Federal Parliament.

TD

But Mr Palmer's fortunes have faded. His political party is imploding and tomorrow he goes on trial in
Brisbane in a civil case in which his Chinese business partners are accusing him, effectively, of fraud.
The Chinese conglomerate Citic Pacific is accusing Mr Palmer of acting dishonestly by using $12 million
of its money to help bankroll his 2013 federal election campaign.

The case is also under investigation by the West Australian Fraud Squad and it could have grave
implications for the tycoon's political and business future, as Peter McCutcheon reports.
PETER MCCUTCHEON, REPORTER: For the past three years, Clive Palmer and his estranged Chinese
mining partners have been slugging it out in courts across the country.

The anger has been exposed in both public and private exchanges.
CLIVE PALMER, LEADER, PALMER UNITED PARTY: I'm chairman of this f**king company. I don't want
to ring up little s**ts like you 'cause you won't pay your bloody rates or pay your rent. I've had enough of
you. So pack up all your f**king bags and get back to China. ...
... The reality of it is that they owe us $700 million they don't want to pay.
PETER MCCUTCHEON: And now this bitter and at times bizarre dispute, originally over mining royalties,
is about to get even nastier.

ROMAN TOMASIC, CORPORATE LAW, UNI. OF SA: They're both behaving in a way that is quite
unusual in terms of the resolution of disputes of this kind. They really both effectively using the nuclear
option.

PETER MCCUTCHEON: In Brisbane tomorrow, a Supreme Court judge will hear an application by
Chinese state-owned mining giant Citic Pacific to declare Clive Palmer personally acted dishonestly in
breach of trust.
The allegation is targeted specifically at the self-described billionaire, rather than the companies he
owns.
PHILIP KIRCHLECHNER, MINING ANALYST: It's quite an amazing case. I mean, you have the most
important conglomerate in our largest export market running into so many problems here. I mean, it's just
incredible.

PETER MCCUTCHEON: This is where the trouble began: the Pilbara in remote Western Australia. The
Sino Iron Project has been plagued by technical glitches, delays and a $7 billion cost blowout. And in
2012, Clive Palmer's private company, Mineralogy, which owns the mining tenements, and the Citic

Page4of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Group had a falling out over how to calculate royalties. At one stage, Clive Palmer even applied,
unsuccessfully, to have the Chinese thrown off the mine altogether.
PHILIP KIRCHLECHNER: Western society tends to be more litigious than Chinese society, whereas in
China you like to sort out problems over the dinner table and try to avoid going to court. So I think there's
probably - in addition to the dispute itself, there's also definitely a cultural issue there as well.

PETER MCCUTCHEON: As the royalty dispute escalated, Clive Palmer launched an expensive political
campaign.

GLENN MUDIE, FORMER PUP CAMPAIGNER: It was just a matter of whatever we requested, we pretty
much got.

PETER MCCUTCHEON: Glenn Mudie worked out of the central office of the Palmer United Party during
last year's federal election and he believed Clive Palmer could afford to be extravagant.

So money was no object?

GLENN MUDIE: As far as I know, money was no object. You know, when it came to Clive Palmer, no-one
would have ever disputed that fact.

PETER MCCUTCHEON: Did you ever wonder where all this money is coming from?

GLENN MUDIE: Oh, definitely not. I mean - you know, I was under the same belief like everybody else
that Clive had 20 camels running around in the desert all with sacks full of cash hanging off the side, so,
you know, that was never a thought in my mind, anyway.

PETER MCCUTCHEON: But since the federal election, Citic Pacific has succeeded in shedding some
light on where Clive Palmer found this stack of cash.
Court documents reveal that Clive Palmer withdrew more than $12 million just before the 2013 election
from an administrative fund set up specifically to operate the port of the Sino Iron Pilbara project. Much of
the funding went through Palmer's company Cosmo Developments and ended up in the coffers of Palmer
United.

The trial before the Queensland Supreme Court won't be focusing on where the money was spent
because the basic facts are not in dispute. For example, $6 million went directly to the Palmer United
Party; another $2 million to the advertising company that ran the election campaign. Rather, this trial will
be looking at the technical question of whether that fund Clive Palmer took the money from is really a
trust, and consequently, whether Clive Palmer acted dishonestly.
CLIVE PALMER (July): This is just a beat-up by the Chinese that don't want to pay for our iron ore, that
want to take over our ports, use their lobbyists, flash their money around 'cause they're a state-owned
company and subvert Australian democracy.
PETER MCCUTCHEON: Clive Palmer's lawyers claim Mineralogy returned the $12 million six months
ago before Citic even began its court action and so this case is purely an attempt to embarrass their client.

And Clive Palmer himself has shown he doesn't like to be questioned about the details of the case.

SARAH FERGUSON, 7.30 PRESENTER (July): There are a couple of questions that you were prepared
to take earlier on this week that I just want to clear up.
CLIVE PALMER: Well I'm not answering any more for you, so goodbye. We'll see you later. (Removes ear
piece and gets up from chair to terminate interview)

PETER MCCUTCHEON: Corporate law expert Professor Roman Tomasic says both sides over the past
three year have engaged in what he calls strategic litigation, using the courts to inflict psychological
damage.

ROMAN TOMASIC: The extent to which this dispute is known to the courts to be one that is the result of
bitter personal differences.

PETER MCCUTCHEON: But Citic Pacific denies its pursuit of Clive Palmer over a breach of trust is just a
psychological game. It argues the Queensland businessman has displayed a pattern of dishonesty,
including producing a sham document to hide his breach of trust, and they've referred the matter to the
West Australian Major Fraud Squad.

Page5of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.STEPHEN BROWN, ASST COMMISSIONER, WA POLICE (Nov. 24): I can confirm that we have
received materials on behalf of the Citic Group and we've commenced to assess those materials to
determine whether there's been any criminal activity as part of our normal fraud investigation and
assessment process.
PETER MCCUTCHEON: For Clive Palmer, there's a huge amount at stake. Ore from Citic's project finally
started to flow out of the Pilbara last December, four years behind schedule. Tomorrow's civil trial and the
police fraud investigation may determine whether and how much Mr Palmer shares in the enormous
profits to be made.

LEIGH SALES: Peter McCutcheon reporting.

NS

RE

gpol : Domestic Politics | gcrim : Crime/Legal Action | gvsup : Judicial Branch | ntra : Transcripts | gcat :
Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gvbod : Government Bodies | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter |
niwe : IWE Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz :
Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging
Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

IPD Clive
PUB Australian Broadcasting Corporation
AN

Document ABCTRS0020141125eabp0008o

Page6of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.