Apple’s bigger iPhones debut in Europe, US to long lines

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY

LP

TD

Apple’s bigger iPhones debut in Europe, US to long lines

Bloomberg News
725 words
19 September 2014
Times Of Oman
TOMAN
English
Copyright 2014 Times Of Oman. Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com Company All Rights
Reserved.

San Francisco: Apple's stores attracted long lines of shoppers for the debut of the latest iPhones,
indicating healthy demand for the bigger-screen smartphones.
The iPhone 6 and the 6 Plus went on sale on Friday in Australia, Hong Kong, Singapore, Japan,
France, Germany, the UK and the East Coast of the US, before rolling out across the rest of the country.
Shoppers in New York and San Francisco had already formed lines in the past two days to be among
the first to buy the gadgets.

At Apple's store on Fifth Avenue in New York, police officers put up barricades as the line stretched
more than 10 blocks and the crowd cheered continuously for the 15 minutes before the phones officially
went on sale. Carlos Jimenez, 24, was waiting to get an iPhone 6 Plus for the bigger screen and the
bragging rights of being one of the first to have it.
"I can watch my Netflix, my YouTube," Jimenez said. "Even though I know you could get bucks for it, I'm
a die-hard Apple fan," he said, waving off the idea of trying to resell the device. Apple's iPhone rollout is
the most important event this year for the Cupertino, California-based company.

Chief Executive Officer Tim Cook is counting on the handsets to maintain Apple's sales growth. The
devices generate more than half of the company's annual $171 billion in revenue and precede a swath
of other products, including new iPads and Apple Watch.

The iPhones have screens of 4.7 inches and 5.5 inches, compared with 4 inches for previous models -
helping Apple appeal to new consumers.
'Get the gold'

Lisa Epps, 55, joined by her employee, Surindar Singh, 42, said she made an exception to her rule of
not waiting in lines because she "can't wait to get the gold" iPhone 6 Plus. In central Paris, Elias Kartout
was among the hundreds of people gathered outside an Apple store early in the morning, with a line
stretching around the French capital's 19th century opera house.

Kartout, a Belgian student, said he had yet to make up his mind on if he would go for the iPhone 6 or the
6 Plus. "I'll decide once I've tried it to see how it feels in my hand," said Kartout, 22, who arrived last
night, taking a detour on a trip to Italy.

Sydney lines

"Anything new is exciting even if it's a paint job," said Fourie, 39.

The line of hundreds of people outside the Apple store in central Sydney snaked around the block, then
down a parallel street before extending three more blocks. At the middle of the line, Xin Liu, 25, a
student at the Sydney Institute of Interpreting and Translating, had waited more than 11 hours to buy
her parents a new phone.

"When I came here, I thought there would be about 500 people," she said. "But someone counted and
there were already 800. I was really surprised."

Page226of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Hong Kong

With Apple yet to say when the iPhone 6 will be available in China, Chen Daihui and Yao Haitao
traveled from the mainland to Hong Kong to try to secure the devices. After failing to register online,
they were both disappointed.

"All I wanted was to go inside and have a look, and they wouldn't let me do that," said the 32-year-old
Chen, who travelled from Fujian. "Looks like I will just have to wait." The Apple store in Tokyo's Shibuya
area had about 600 people lined up an hour before opening, while the one in nearby Omotesando had
about 1,000. They included a woman near the front of the line wearing a Steve Jobs mask, carrying a
red apple.

Supply, demand

The buzz over the smartphones has been high since Cook unveiled them at a September 9 event.
When the iPhones became available for pre-order a week ago, they racked up a record four million
reservations in the first 24 hours and surpassed earlier releases.

Resellers said users are trading in older phones to make room for the new iPhones, while some phones
are being offered on Hong Kong's black market for $3,600.

CO
IN

RE

IPD
PUB
AN

applc : Apple Inc.
ismart : Smart Phones | i3302 : Computers/Consumer Electronics | i3441 : Telecommunications
Equipment | i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3454 : Electronic Consumer Goods | icellph :
Cellular/Mobile Phones | ielec : Consumer Electronics | ihandaps : Handheld Electronic Devices | itech :
Technology
hkong : Hong Kong | austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | usa : United States | sfra : San Francisco |
apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | china : China |
chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies |
easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America | nswals : New South Wales | usca : California | usw :
Western U.S.
Business
Muscat Press and Publishing House
Document TOMAN00020140919ea9j0005p

Page227of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.