Life Insurance Companies; PREI(R), AP3 form joint venture to invest in German retail properties

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Life Insurance Companies; PREI(R), AP3 form joint venture to invest in German retail properties

850 words
24 June 2014
China Weekly News
CHWKNW
202
English
© Copyright 2014 Chemicals & Chemistry via NewsRx.com

2014 JUN 24 (VerticalNews) -- By a News Reporter-Staff News Editor at China Weekly News --
Prudential Real Estate Investors and the Third Swedish National Pension Fund, AP3, announced they
have formed a joint venture to invest in retail properties throughout Germany. The joint venture has
acquired a first portfolio and agreed to acquire a second portfolio of grocery-anchored retail properties
from funds managed by Taurus Investment Holdings, which remains a minority partner in both
transactions. PREI(R) is the real estate investment and advisory business of Prudential Financial, Inc.
(NYSE:PRU), which is headquartered in the United States.

The joint venture is acquiring controlling stakes of the properties in two separate transactions totaling
(EURO)265 million, or a little more than $361 million. The first transaction closed in April and the
second is expected to close in the second quarter, with Taurus remaining a minority investor in both
instances. Combined, the entire portfolio comprises more than 200,000 square meters and 83 high
yielding, grocery-anchored properties throughout Germany. Key tenants include such large German food
retailers as REWE, Aldi, Lidl, Netto, NORMA and Tegut. The portfolio has centers located across
Germany, including in Bavaria and Hesse, with properties near Munich, Frankfurt and Wiesbaden.

"The German market offers good prospects for retailers amid low unemployment, low household debt
and rising wages," said Sebastiano Ferrante, PREI's head of Germany, where the company operates as
Pramerica Real Estate Investors. "Grocery-anchored retail properties continue to fill a critical need in the
market, despite the growth of online sales, leading some retailers to expand and providing our investors
with attractive opportunities. We are delighted to partner with AP3 in this important Eurozone market."

Klas Akerback, senior portfolio manager at AP3, added, "We see a potential for attractive risk-adjusted
returns in established German regional grocery-anchored retail, as the tenants are strong companies
and existing sites will benefit because stricter planning rules make new construction difficult. I am very
pleased to be working on this investment with Pramerica's experienced team."

Lorenz Reibling, founder and partner at Taurus, said: "We are pleased to have found a strong and
experienced partner that enables us to continue Taurus Euro Retail Funds I & II, and are looking forward
working with Pramerica and AP3. We share their positive outlook on the German retail real estate
sector."

AP3 is one of five so-called buffer funds within the Swedish national pension system. AP3 manages a
diversified global portfolio of listed equities, fixed income assets and alternative investments. Alternative
investments consist of private equity, real estate, timberland, infrastructure assets and new strategies.
The value of AP3's portfolio stood at SEK 258.5 billion on 31 December 2013.
Taurus Investment Holdings, LLC, is a real estate private equity firm founded in 1976 that acts as an
owner, developer, operator and co-investor active in 30 markets around the world. Taurus was founded
in Munich and is currently headquartered in Boston, MA. Taurus, together with its international private
investors and strategic joint venture partners, leverages its local market proficiency and performance
record to capitalize on select investment opportunities. Since inception, Taurus has acquired and sold
more than 2 million square meters of residential, office, industrial, retail and other real estate assets.
The investments under management are distributed globally and encompass an acquisition value of over
3 billion USD. For more information please visit http://www.tiholdings.com.

Page64of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PREI is a leader in the global real estate investment management business, offering a broad range of
investment vehicles that invest in private and public market opportunities in the United States, Europe,
the Middle East, Asia, Australia and Latin America. Headquartered in Madison, N.J., the company also
has offices in Atlanta, Chicago, Miami, New York, San Francisco, Frankfurt, Lisbon, London,
Luxembourg, Munich, Paris, Abu Dhabi, Mexico City, Sao Paulo, Hong Kong, Seoul, Singapore, Sydney
and Tokyo. In addition, PREI has representatives in Milan. Prudential Real Estate Investors had gross
assets under management of USD $55.8 billion ($41.8 billion net), as of March 31, 2014. For more
information, visit http://www.prei.com.

Prudential Financial, Inc. (NYSE:PRU), a financial services leader with more than $1.1 trillion of assets
under management as of March 31, 2014, has operations in the United States, Asia, Europe, and Latin
America. Prudential's diverse and talented employees are committed to helping individual and
institutional customers grow and protect their wealth through a variety of products and services, including
life insurance, annuities, retirement-related services, mutual funds and investment management. In the
U.S., Prudential's iconic Rock symbol has stood for strength, stability, expertise and innovation for more
than a century. For more information, please visit www.news.prudential.com.
Keywords for this news article include: Asia, China, Industry, Real Estate, Banking and Finance,
Financial Companies, Finance and Investment, Investment and Finance, Life Insurance Companies,
Financial Service Companies.

Our reports deliver fact-based news of research and discoveries from around the world. Copyright 2014,
NewsRx LLC

pruins : Prudential Financial Inc
i82 : Insurance | i82002 : Life Insurance | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real
Estate/Construction | ifinal : Financial Services
c184 : Joint Ventures | c182 : Asset Transactions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions
| ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry
News Filter
gfr : Germany | usa : United States | austr : Australia | hkong : Hong Kong | munich : Munich | apacz :
Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bavar : Free State of Bavaria | bric : BRIC
Countries | china : China | chinaz : Greater China | dach : DACH Countries | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz : European Union Countries |
eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
Expanded Reporting

CO
IN

NS

RE

IPD
PUB NewsRx.com
AN

Document CHWKNW0020140620ea6o0004a

Page65of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.