Two greats turn page on history

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Two greats turn page on history

828 words
25 January 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
Second
4
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

Business history buffs aren’t going to be short of reading material next month, with both Wesfarmers
and its Coles supermarkets empire releasing tomes to mark their centenaries.

Wesfarmers’ imposing hardcover book, The People’s Story by award-winning author Peter Thompson ,
is already back from the printers in time for its official launch on February 18.

However, its print run of 8500 is dwarfed by Coles’ own softback offering, wait for it . . . Coles 100
Years of Quality, Service & Value. Coles is turning out 100,000 copies to ensure each and every staff
member gets one.

Mundella’s Bright delight

Local udder-squeezers done good Peter and Anne Hector are in line to make a bundle of cash after
selling their dairy business, Mundella, to China’s Bright Foods .

But the picture on this page is proof that the family is no overnight success. Taken in the 1970s it
shows Anne, centre, getting down to business at the dairy. The Bull (a big fan of Mundella’s Greek
Honey range) wishes the hard-working couple the best in their future endeavours.

Oliver nominees

WA’s battered small and mid-cap resource companies may have gone through an annus horribilis but
there is some cause for cheer with the announcement of nominees for this year’s Craig Oliver awards.
Beadell Resources, BC Iron, Doray Minerals, Gindalbie Metals, Northern Star Resources, Phoenix
Gold, Regis Resources, Sandfire Resources and Toro Energy have been short-listed to pick up the
gong, or sculpture rather.
Subiaco’s Thomas Meihofer Jewellers has crafted a unique sculpture in silver, titanium, copper and
gold (at least the materials would have been cheap — to the consternation of the companies
attending). The award was created in memory of the former non-executive director of Sundance
Resources, who was killed in 2010 when a plane carrying the entire Sundance Resources board
crashed in the Congo.

It will be presented during the RIU Explorers Conference, which runs at Fremantle’s Esplanade Hotel
on February 19 and 20.

Good luck all.

Awards left in Crabb’s hands
Speaking of awards nights, the Bull was surprised at the Chamber of Minerals and Energy’s choice of
presenter at one of its coming events. The chamber’s politics is slightly to the right of Ghengis Khan so
the decision to lure ABC/Fairfax luvvie Annabel Crabb as host seemed odd. Then again, the March 7

Page200of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.event, Women in Resources Awards, is celebrating diversity, so Crabb’s sometimes left-of-centre
pedigree may not be out of place.

Sexy intrigue
The always entertaining interface between Perth’s sex industry and the business world will again be
probed next month when John Kizon and business partner Nigel Mansfield front the bench over
insider trading charges relating to buying shares in online sex shop business Adultshop.com .

For those readers with hazy memories, a quick recap. The pair originally faced 52 charges, which
included allegations relating to trade in a company called My Casino , but most were dismissed in
2010.

A year later, the WA Court of Appeal ordered a retrial on 34 charges in relation to Adultshop.com —
the online “marital aid” service set up by the celibacy movement’s man-of-the-year, Malcolm Day .

The pair appealed to the High Court, which last year ruled against them.

“Every punter on St Georges Terrace should be terrified,” was Kizon’s take on the decision.

Pankaj pursuit

Still on the subject of law and order, word has reached the paddock from Oslo that a key figure in Yara
International’s expensive pursuit of Pankaj Oswal’s fertiliser plant near Karratha has slid further into
the judicial manure, or judicial gjødsel as they would say in Norway.
Tor Holba , was Yara’s head of upstream operations and was behind the ugly decision to spend $176
million buying an extra 5 per cent stake in Burrup Fertilisers in 2008, shortly before the collapse of
global financial markets.

He has been indicted by the slickly titled Norwegian National Authority for Investigation and
Prosecution of Economic and Environmental Crime (apparently the agents have A4-sized business
cards) over alleged corruption involving the Norwegian fertiliser giant.

Case for cash

If you see a broker from Euroz sweating on February 21 it will be because they are waiting for a key
shareholder vote on whether the firm’s bonus system should be altered to, well, give staff bigger
bonuses.

Executive chairman Andrew McKenzie sent a letter to shareholders last week in which he outlined the
case to create a deeper bonus pool by making it 40 per cent of pre-tax profits, up from the current 30
per cent.

McKenzie put up several arguments for change, including that it would make it less likely that Euroz
staff would be poached by better-paying companies.

A less kind Bull would suggest another way to guarantee a bigger bonus would be to make more
money . . .

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

wsfrm : Wesfarmers Ltd | colsgj : Coles Group Ltd
i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i656 : Mixed Retailing | i6560002 : Department Stores | i8396 : Diversified
Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | iretail : Retail
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document TWAU000020140124ea1p00002

Page201of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.