Aussie bitcoin exchange secures US funding

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Aussie bitcoin exchange secures US funding

Byron Connolly
322 words
23 June 2014
Computerworld
IDGCWA
English
(c) 2014 IDG Communications Pty Ltd All Rights Reserved

Australian bitcoin exchange, igot.com, has secured funding from US-based startup investor and
founder of Tremor Video, Jesse Chenard.
Headquartered in Oaklands Park, South Australia – with offices in India and The Netherlands –
igot.com was established by Australian Rick Day and New York lawyer Patrick Manasse. The
platform lets users buy, sell, and send cryptocurrency.

The startup claims it is one of the few digital currency providers to feature BPAY and direct debit
facilities, allowing for trusted fund transfers directly to and from a users’ bank account.
Manasse said since creating the igot.com last year, the vast majority of people the company
engaged with though the idea to launch an international cryptocurrency exchange site was beyond
ambitious.

“Despite initial skepticism, we have been able to convince stakeholders, investors and users alike on
the benefits and opportunities that the igot platform enables local users on a global scale,” he said.
Despite the debate over the business model, the company’s founders believe that the number of
people being attracted to digital currency as a form of finance and exchange will only increase.

Rick Day added that cryptocurrency is largely untapped in the global marketplace and the service is
inexpensive – one per cent on all trades, transfers, and transactions.

Over the next 12 months, the startup plans to expand into the Asian and European markets. It is
already operating in India (where it’s the largest digital currency exchange platform in terms of trade
volume), Hong Kong, Singapore, and New Zealand.

Follow CIO Australia on Twitter and Like us on Facebook… Twitter: @CIO_Australia, Facebook:
CIO Australia, or take part in the CIO conversation on LinkedIn: CIO Australia

Follow Byron Connolly on Twitter:@ByronConnolly

Follow CIO Australia on Twitter and Like us on Facebook… Twitter: @CIO_Australia, Facebook:
CIO Australia, or take part in the CIO conversation on LinkedIn: CIO Australia

trmmdi : Tremor Video Inc.
isocial : Social Media | ivicu : Virtual Currencies | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services |
iint : Internet/Online | imed : Media/Entertainment | itech : Technology | iadv :
Advertising/Marketing/Public Relations | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | namz : North America
IDG Communications Pty Ltd.
Document IDGCWA0020140701ea6n0000u

CO
IN

RE

PUB
AN

Page74of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.