Chinese Entrepreneur Delegation to Visit Singapore and Australia; -- Chinese Private Businesses to Discover New Collaborative Opportunities in Asia-Pacific

HD

CR
WC 785 words
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

Chinese Entrepreneur Delegation to Visit Singapore and Australia; -- Chinese Private Businesses
to Discover New Collaborative Opportunities in Asia-Pacific
China Entrepreneur Club; PR Newswire

28 November 2014
20:12
PR Newswire Asia
PRNASI
English
Copyright © 2014 PR Newswire Association LLC. All Rights Reserved.

TD

BEIJING, Nov. 28, 2014 /PRNewswire/ -- Today, China Entrepreneur Club, a non profit organization and
the premier business leader platform in China, announced its 8-day visit to Singapore and Australia from
Nov 28th. Ma Weihua, Executive Chairman of China Entrepreneur Club and former President of China
Merchants Bank, will lead the delegation of more than 20 Chinese entrepreneurs, including Zhu Xinli,
Charles Chao, Feng Lun, Yang Shaopeng, Frank Wu and Wang Wenjing etc.

The delegation will visit Singapore, Canberra, Sydney and Melbourne, where they will meet the Prime
Minister of the Republic of Singapore Mr Lee Hsien Loong and scheduled to call on the Australian Prime
Minister Tony Abbott. They will pay a visit to the Singapore Business Federation, Business Council of
Australia, Australia China Business Council, Tourism Australia, Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial
Research Organisation, Australian Centre on China in the World, as well as enterprises of the two
countries, including Temasek Holdings, Telstra, GrainCorp, Macquarie Group, Treasury Wine Estates,
Goodman Group and Royal District Nursing Service etc.
"The delegation comprises representative, outstanding entrepreneurs from major Chinese industries,
including agriculture, the Internet, software, real estate, shipping, culture and investment. The main
objective of this visit is to promote understanding and communication between Chinese private
businesses and the political, business and academic circles of both countries, while discovering potential
investment and collaborative opportunities," said Ma Weihua, Head of the Delegation.
"Capping off this 'year of opportunity' between Australia and China, Australia is delighted to welcome the
CEC delegation to Canberra, Sydney and Melbourne in December. CEC members represent the best of
China's innovative private sector, and we see these companies as being an essential part of our bilateral
trade and investment relationship. The recent conclusion of bilateral FTA negotiations, successful hosting
of APEC and G20 Summits, and exchange of high-level visits between our national leaders, including a
historic State visit by President Xi Jinping, makes this the perfect time for CEC members to explore
business opportunities in Australia. We wish the CEC delegation to Australia every success." said Ms.
Frances Adamson, Australian Ambassador to China.
"Singapore warmly welcomes the upcoming visit by the members of the China Entrepreneur Club. I am
confident that the visit will contribute to the further deepening of the strong economic cooperation between
Singapore and China. As Chinese companies grow and expand their operations overseas, Singapore
looks forward to playing an even greater supporting and constructive role," said Mr. Stanley Loh,
Ambassador of the Republic of Singapore to China.
The annual International Visit initiated by China Entrepreneur Club distinguishes itself by the group visits
of private enterprises in China. Since 2011, CEC delegations have successfully visited the U.S., U.K.,
France and Belgium, reaching out to the most influential political, business and academic institutions. The
visit has become the most representative public diplomatic activities in China's business circles.
This visit will take place during the period of accelerated internationalisation of Chinese businesses.
Research show[1] that the total volume of overseas merger and acquisition by Chinese businesses during
the first three quarters of 2014 has increased by 31% compared to the same period last year. Among all
176 transactions, the number carried out by private businesses is twice as much as that of state-owned
businesses. The amount of merger and acquisition by private businesses has increased by over 120%
year-on-year, making it an indispensible force in overseas merger and acquisition by Chinese businesses.

Page26of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.1. Source: Report published by PwC on 27 October

About China Entrepreneur Club
The China Entrepreneur Club is the premier business leader platform in China. Established by 31 of
China's most influential entrepreneurs, economists and diplomats in 2006, the CEC is a hub for Chinese
entrepreneurial exchange, cooperation, and international collaboration. As a private non-profit
organization, the CEC is committed to nurturing entrepreneurship and business integrity, while paving the
future of sustainable economic and social development.
CEC members represent the first generation of modern Chinese entrepreneurs. Members and member
companies are proud to signify commercial success while abiding by the rules and regulations of the
market economy. CEC members continue to set the example for sustainable competitiveness by actively
engaging in public welfare initiatives and endorsing corporate social responsibility. CEC member
companies are economic powerhouses, with 46 dynamic companies earning a total annual gross income
of over two trillion Yuan.

For more information, please visit http://www.daonong.com/English

CT Mr. David Cai, +86-62766066-831, cait@daonong.com, Ms. Enya Chen, +86-62766066-897,

chenyl@daonong.com

CO bucoau : Business Council of Australia | cmsnbk : China Merchants Bank Co Ltd | csiroa : Commonwealth

IN
NS

RE

Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
gdip : International Relations | npress : Press Releases | gcat : Political/General News | gpir :
Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types
austr : Australia | china : China | singp : Singapore | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | seasiaz : Southeast Asia

IPD China-Entrepreneurs
IPC FIN
PUB PR Newswire Association, Inc.
AN

Document PRNASI0020141128eabs0012x

Page27of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.