The raw of the dragon

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
The raw of the dragon

936 words
26 November 2014
Weekly Times
HERWEK
WeeklyTimes
89
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

The China market represents a real opportunity for A ustralian livestock producers, writes James
Wagstaff
MUCH has been written and said about China’s growing appetite for Australian red meat.

The explosion of beef shipments from 5000 tonnes in 2011 to 160,000 tonnes (valued at $1.4 billion)
last year is a story in itself. Throw in a sheepmeat market worth $850 million and last week’s free-trade
agreement between the two nations and the foundations only get stronger.
But who exactly are the Chinese consumers, why are they zeroing in on Australian product, where are
they sourcing it from and how do they go about buying it?
Meat and Livestock Australia South-East Asia and China regional manager Andrew Simpson has all the
answers.
THE WHO THE 300 million Chinese workers moving into the “middle class” — with an annual income
of about $US20,000 — are “the target, the opportunity” for the Australian red-meat industry: “China at its
heart is a peasant culture, steeped in deep agriculture tradition, but it is a culture that is rapidly
urbanising,” Mr Simpson said.
“By 2030, we expect to see nearly 70 per cent (of China’s 1.4 billion population) living in cities — that is
a billion people. Perhaps in our lifetime we will never see the same human migration that we have seen
in China over the past two decades. And for people that have such deep agricultural roots, who are
used to living from the foods that they’ve either created or eaten from the land, they are now living in an
environment where the environment will dictate how they will live and how they will eat.” Mr Simpson
said 160 million people in China now lived in one or two-person households and there was “growing
empowerment” in regards to income and “as the determinant of where fashionable foods can be
bought”.
THE WHERE THE “supermarketisation” — or the “rapid build of retail” — of China has been
phenomenal in recent years, Mr Simpson said.

The nation had evolved greatly from a “traditional market based around highly-fragmented, small retail
sectors, ultimately in wet market” to the point where government enforcement, urbanisation and
“ultimately the need to better control things like quality, hygiene etc” had significantly changed things.

“We’ve effectively put a roof over the wet markets, even with better refrigeration, better lighting and
packaging, and consumers can still link back to their cultural heritage by picking up product, looking,
scratching, sniffing, but it’s done in retail conditions.” Forty-seven per cent of food in China is now traded
this way and “we have now seen a big number of those supermarkets saying they want legitimate supply
from external sources, ie Australia”.

The rapid expansion of food service has also increased demand for red meat, an example being the
Yum! chain of stores, including Pizza Hut, which has grown to 6500 stores nationwide.

Page225of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“Think of Pizza Hut toppings, that takes beef, that takes lamb from Australia … (and) this year they
introduced beef steaks from Australia,” Mr Simpson said.
THE HOW MORE than 10 per cent of all Chinese retail sales — including red meat — are now
conducted online.

This trend started in 2003-04 with residents reluctant to leave their home for fear they would catch avian
flu.
“For a country with such cultural links to feeling and seeing and wanting to buy fresh food, to see the
speed at which social media is growing is something we have to adjust into. The social media revolution
in China is quite phenomenal.” Since September last year MLA has run monthly red-meat online
promotions to “loyal foodies looking for beef, lamb and goat”. Already they have compiled a database of
220,000 active followers.
THE WHY UNTIL the 1980s, Mr Simpson explains, China was considered an isolated state. Now 69 per
cent of Chinese consumers acknowledge “they have some cultural interlink with another culture,
another food source” which is “good news for us in Australia because they are accepting it doesn’t just
have to be from local product”.
Mr Simpson said given food scares that have rocked China in recent years — “the melamine issue in
dairy, floating carcasses down the rivers in Shanghai and substitution” — food safety was paramount to
its residents.

“I think this is a real opportunity for us to shine and show our strength, particularly in areas like
country-of-origin labelling, particularly in areas of provenance,” he said.
“China has a cap on where they will seek value but ultimately they will pay for product if they know it can
be trusted and it’s from a direct source.”
THE FUTURE DESPITE the recent growth in exports, Australia supplies less than 3 per cent of China’s
beef requirements and less than 5 per cent for lamb.

What this means is another “95 per cent is coming from somewhere else”, including the illegal grey
trade.

“The key issue for us as marketers and ultimately the trade is to ensure that we are muscled in to the
best and highest-paid element of that 3 or 5 per cent,” Mr Simpson said.
In addition, he said there were 750 five-star hotels across China and “there are going to be another 100
by next year”.“Each of those hotels need legitimate supply. They can’t go and advocate on their menus
‘American beef’, they can’t say ‘Brazilian beef’ because it is not allowed. But they can with Australian,”
Mr Simpson said. “I think we are on the right road to feeding the dragon.”

CO
IN
RE

PUB
AN

mtlvau : Meat & Livestock Australia Limited
i0 : Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | ilsfarm : Livestock Farming
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document HERWEK0020141125eabq00036

Page226of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.