Poli will part with his baby if price is right

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Poli will part with his baby if price is right

PAUL GARVEY, PROFILE
525 words
6 May 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
22
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

AS an accountant by trade, Tony Poli is first and foremost a numbers man. And as he considers the
sale of the baby he founded 14 years ago, those close to him believe he will be pragmatic rather than
sentimental when it comes to weighing up the Baosteel-Aurizon offer.
Poli was keeping a low profile yesterday, contemplating an offer that would deliver a $400 million
cheque for his stake. The future of the company hinges on his decision. While the tight timetable
attached to the Baosteel and Aurizon approach hasn’t done them too many favours (the offer only found
its way to Mr Poli in the early hours of Saturday morning, with a request for a Sunday meeting to finalise
the deal), those who know him well describe him as a realist.

The son of Italian immigrants and a product of a working-class upbringing, Mr Poli has in the past been
prepared to sell assets that were close to his heart. For the right price, he will walk away.

It was one of those asset sales that paved the way for Aquila in the first place.

Back in 1990, Mr Poli made the bold decision to close his accountancy practice and take control of a
listed minnow he and his associates would later relaunch as Eagle Mining.

By 1995, Eagle’s Nimary goldmine in Western Australia was in production. But just two years later, Joe
Gutnick’s Great Central Mines swooped with a takeover offer that proved too good to refuse.
Mr Poli, Charlie Bass and Derek Cowlan walked away with $31m between them as a result of the sale
of Eagle — some of which would go towards founding Aquila, the Latin word for eagle — just three
years later.

Aquila listed on the ASX in the middle of the dotcom boom with a market cap of just $6m. Prescient
forays into both coking coal in Queensland and iron ore in Western Australia, years before China’s
enormous appetite for the two steelmaking ingredients became abundantly clear, helped make Aquila
one of the stars of Australia’s resources sector as the mining boom ratcheted up.
When Aquila shares hit a post-GFC peak of $9.30 in December 2010, Mr Poli’s stake was worth in
excess of $1.1 billion.
The offer from Baosteel and Aurizon of $3.40 per share values his stake at more than $400m.
Accepting the offer would crystallise a valuation well below Aquila’s highs of recent years, and would
also be substantially less than the $10bn Mr Poli estimated Aquila could be worth in the event it got its
West Pilbara iron ore assets into production.Yet he will also be well aware that Aquila’s prospects for
developing the West Pilbara assets in its current form look stretched. The outlook for iron ore is the
worst it has been for years and, even if the bearish forecasts again prove wrong, the prospects of an
independent Aquila funding a multi-billion-dollar iron ore development in the current climate would
appear remote.

Page168of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

RE
PUB
AN

c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140505ea5600060

Page169of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.