Investors compete for $650 million of prized stock

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Investors compete for $650 million of prized stock

Commercial property Carolyn Cummins
593 words
7 April 2014
Canberra Times
CANBTZ
B009
English
(c) 2014 The Canberra Times

Westpac HQ in Kent Street, Sydney.
Commercial property Carolyn Cummins

Investors compete for $650 million of prized stock

More than $650 million of properties are due to change hands in the coming month, as investors rally to
get a foothold into the tightly held sector. In Sydney, final bids are being reviewed for a half share of the
Westpac Bank headquarters at 275 Kent Street and the Sofitel Sydney Wentworth Hotel in Phillip Street.
It is understood the South Korean pension fund, KKP, is the likely contender to buy Mirvac's half share in
Kent Street, worth about $420 million. A number of parties did preliminary due diligence on the asset, but
were concerned about whether the bank would exercise its option to sublease about 20,000 square
metres. Westpac is consolidating its

remaining Sydney offices into new space at Barangaroo, but will also retain its presence at Kent Street.
However, it is said the bank can "opt out" of space in that property and move staff to the new site
opposite. The second round of bids are also being reviewed for the Sofitel, with a Chinese group, Sun
Life Insurance and City Developments Ltd (CDL) said to be very keen on the site. Potentially keeping the
price down to about $175 million, the hotel does not have a pool or harbour views and there are strata
issues with the car park. Seller LaSalle Investment Management also has to now compete with the sale
of the Sheraton on the Park, in nearby Elizabeth Street. Hotels have been keenly sought after. Late last
year, the private Chinese investor Fu Wah International Group made its first major foray into local
property with the purchase of Melbourne's landmark five-star Park Hyatt hotel. It was believed the price
paid was about $135 million, but the agents and buyer declined to comment. The hotel, at 1 St Andrews
Place,

near Melbourne's Parliament House, and was developed in 1999 by Lustig & Moar at a cost of $150
million. The sale involved both the 240-room Park Hyatt and a commercial car park next door. The
office and hotel sales come as CBRE's Australian head of research, Stephen McNabb, said first-quarter
office sales activity was lower across all sectors - but this followed a record 2013 during which sales
activity eclipsed the previous 2006 record by more than $5 billion. "The first quarter is seasonally a softer
quarter for activity and hence it is more difficult to interpret trends in a market subject to large and lumpy
deals," Mr McNabb said. "Activity in all sectors was lower than a year ago, although office and industrial
has held up better than retail. Overall, quarterly volumes in

Sydney and Melbourne were ahead of year-ago levels, while down in Brisbane, Perth and Adelaide.ï¿½
CBRE regional director, capital markets, Josh Cullen, said the lower sales activity had been a timing
issue and there had been no signs of any easing in buyer interest. ï¿½The current level of buyer inquiry
and the pipeline of property that is either in due diligence or being marketed at present suggest that
sales volumes in the June quarter will be extremely strong," Mr Cullen said. "The inquiries we're receiving
have been equal to, if not higher, than they were in the first quarter of last year." This was evident in the
three major office tower campaigns that had recently closed on assets valued at about $850 million.

RF

55662731

Page225of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CO
IN

NS

RE

wstpac : Westpac Banking Corporation Limited
i6651 : Hotels (except Casino)/Motels | i66 : Hotels/Restaurants | i665 : Lodgings | ilea :
Leisure/Arts/Hospitality | itourm : Tourism | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk :
Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
c182 : Asset Transactions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | sydney : Sydney | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South Wales

PUB Federal Capital Press of Australia Pty Ltd
AN

Document CANBTZ0020140406ea470000w

Page226of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.