Ports are Pilbara's other treasure

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Ports are Pilbara's other treasure

Amanda Saunders
916 words
10 May 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
37
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Resources

Aquila bid reveals infrastructure is highly coveted, and vital for junior miners.

It was only natural that Baosteel and Aurizon's $1.42 billion strategic play to wrest control of the next
big greenfields Pilbara port project through a joint bid for Aquila Resources took the market by
surprise this week.
With the iron ore price on the slide amid concerns of oversupply, many investors and rivals were left
asking why the stalled $7.4 billion West Pilbara Iron Ore project was suddenly of interest.

As an infrastructure play, some of the attraction is obvious. The project is underpinned by the
proposed deepwater Anketell port and rail development, near Dampier, which would allow billions of
tonnes of stranded Western Pilbara ore to be mined and shipped.
And there are suggestions that the very dip in the iron ore price – down 23 per cent since January –
that has spooked investors spurred the two industry giants to lob their bid now.
Others say the timing was driven by China Inc's frustration at having been an Aquila shareholder
since 2009 without seeing progress on the Perth junior's flagship project. Sources suggested China's
desire to resolve its Aquila dilemma was the main reason for plucking the West Pilbara from a suite of
other projects in WA that have been crying out for capital.

But what the play for Anketell has done is thrust into the spotlight just how coveted infrastructure in
the Pilbara is. It's a familiar tale in mining – having the valuable resources but being unable to get
them to market.

With the exception of the Cape Preston port built for CITIC Pacific's troubled project, Anketell would
be the first major port built in the Pilbara since Rio Tinto's Cape Lambert in 1972.

Another port option was the planned outer harbour development at Port Hedland but that has been
put on ice indefinitely by BHP Billiton.
The three iron ore majors, Rio, BHP and Fortescue Metals Group have an infrastructure stranglehold
in the Pilbara. That is an unusual dynamic given infrastructure globally is not usually the domain of
miners.

Aurizon has made it clear Anketell and an accompanying 432 kilometres of heavy haul rail would be a
"multi-user" in a world where to date, the majors have avoided allowing others to run trains down their
rail lines.

The fact one of Rio and BHP's biggest customers in Baosteel is looking to diversify beyond them has
been welcomed by iron ore juniors, who are languishing without access to port and rail.

Page148of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Atlas Iron chief Ken Brinsden said a new entrant was "healthy to diversify and facilitate alternative
sources of supply".

But delivering a greenfields project is always fraught with difficulties.
Aurizon and Baosteel are aiming to ship ore from Anketell by 2017 at a rate of about 40 million
tonnes a year. But the aim is to ultimately expand the port capacity to 350 million tonnes.

Rio boss Sam Walsh, among others, has expressed scepticism about the project coming to fruition.
"Bringing on projects is getting far more complex and far more difficult," Walsh said, saying the lead
time on greenfields had blown out from an average of 10 years to 27 years.

He also said the West Pilbara project's grades were too low to compete against Rio.

But Aurizon chief Lance Hockridge is staring down the critics, pointing to the rail giant's track record
of delivering its vast Queensland rail projects on time and on budget, since privatisation. Hockridge
said a "critical mass" of tonnes was needed to underpin the Anketell development but the West
Pilbara project's iron ore resource of about 2.2 billion tonnes could support it alone.

The Utah Point facility at Port Hedland is the only multi-user facility on the Pilbara coast. One of the
juniors who could tap Anketell, Brockman Mining, said a change in ownership of the project would
likely encourage it to increase exploration.

Brockman chief executive Russell Tipper said it made more sense for a specialist infrastructure
provider such as Aurizon to own rail and port assets than miners. Brockman is challenging Fortescue
for third-party access to its Pilbara rail network for a different tenement - its Marillana iron ore
deposit.
Other juniors who could tap the rail line include Flinders Mines, Iron Ore Holdings, BC Iron and
Dragon Energy.
And then there is Fortescue's western hub. Fortescue has 625 million tonnes of resources in the
western Pilbara. The miner is continuing to explore the area, but chief Nev Power said it would need
"substantially more" to justify tapping Anketell to export. Power did not rule out taking a minority
stake in the project , but said "there is no suggestion we will co-invest".

"It's not essential to own infrastructure – it depends on us getting the right deal," he said. "Anketell is
one of our options for development of that region. Investment by Baosteel and Aurizon could help that
development."

Fortescue fought Aquila in 2011 over the rights to build an expanded port at Anketell but lost the
challenge.
Aquila owns the West Pilbara project with private equity house AMCI and Korean steel giant
POSCO, who each hold 25 per cent. POSCO – which was a willing seller before the bid – has
remained tight-lipped on its plans. But it is understood it has shelved any plans to sell, pending a final
investment decision by Aurizon.

CO

IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

aqures : Aquila Resources Ltd. | bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | dorval : Aurizon Mines Ltd | bltplc : BHP
Billiton PLC | hclamn : Hecla Mining Co
i5020017 : Harbor Construction | i502 : Heavy Construction | iconst : Construction | icre : Real
Estate/Construction | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2112 : Gold Ore/Silver Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140511ea5a0006z

Page149of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.