Datacentres.com: Chinese cloud datacentre project go ahead

Datacentres.com: Chinese cloud datacentre project go ahead

HD
WC 724 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

25 January 2014
News Bites - Private Companies
NBPRCO
English
Copyright 2014. News Bites Pty Ltd.

NEWS BITES - PRIVATE COMPANIES
[Company Release]

TD

A major new datacentre project in China - the Zhongshang Cloud Valley Data Center Project - is set to
see ground broken this spring. When completed the project is set to see some 80,000 sq m of total floor
space delivered, of which approximately 23,000 sq m white space.

According to local media sources - including Xinhuanet, the project, a joint exercise between Horinger
County of Inner Magnolia and datacentre company y, CIDS, will see an investment of around 800m CNY.

The first of two planned phases is set to see ground broken later this spring and will involve the
construction of two stand-alone datacentres totalling some 10,000 sq m of technical space.

Click here for the full original announcement
COMPANY BACKGROUND

ACTIVITIES
BroadGroup is an Information Media Technology and Professional Services company providing a value
chain of research, publications, consulting and conference services to fast growing niches in the IT and
Telecoms sector with 19 events in 13 countries.
Founded in 2002, the company aims to provide senior managers with a different perspective of new and
emerging business niches, create new communities of interest, and inspire them with fresh insight on how
they could be exploited profitably. Today, the company covers a portfolio of markets offering professional
services through a value chain of bespoke consulting, market research, reports, and events.

BUSINESS NEWS ROUND UP

24 January 2014: Skytap extends footprint with new Singapore datacentre
[Company Release] Skytap, a provider of self-service application development environments in the cloud,
has introduced its first international datacentre; located in Singapore and serving customers across the
Asia Pacific region - including those in Australia, Hong Kong and China.

Click here for the full original announcement

24 January 2014: Datacentres.com: Tata Communications brings 100G connectivity with Ciena"s
GeoMesh
[Company Release] Tata Communications and Ciena, the network specialist, have announced the launch
of 100 gigabits per second upgrade along the TGN-Pacific submarine cable system that connects the US
to Japan and three routes in the TGN-Intra-Asia market across Asia. With this latest in a series of
investments, Tata Communications becomes the only private subsea cable owner that has 100G
deployed across major routes around the world on its own infrastructure. With Ciena"s 6500 Converged
Packet Optical platform and GeoMesh solution, Tata Communications is upgrading its TGN-P submarine
cables - which is the longest segment in route km and believed to be the highest capacity subsea cables
deployed in the Pacific - to 100G.

Click here for the full original announcement

Page233of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.23 January 2014: Datacentres.com: Infinity Slough launched with first two customers
[Company Release] Infinity SDC, the UK datacentre operator, has launched the first phase of its flagship
datacentre at Slough. The datacentre is Infinity"s first purpose built facility, located in the heart of the UK"s
High Tech corridor. The site was made fully operational in December with the first two contracted
customers already installing their equipment. The facility is also Infinity"s first modular design that employs
scalable building blocks.

Click here for the full original announcement
23 January 2014: Equinix invests US$60 million in Melbourne datacentre
[Company Release] Global datacentre company, Equinix, has announced it plans to invest
approximately US$60 million to build a new datacentre in Melbourne. The new datacentre-called ME1-is
being built to "address strong demand from customers for premium datacentre services in Melbourne, as
data consumption and cloud services experience continued growth in the Australian and global IT
markets." The facility is located in Port Melbourne, and will provide a capacity of 1,500 cabinets, with the
first phase of 375 cabinets scheduled for completion in Q4 2014.

Click here for the full original announcement
23 January 2014: Swedish wind energy for Google"s Finnish datacentre
[Company Release] The Swedish wind power developer, Eolus Vind AB and search engine giant Google
have signed a ten year agreement in which Google will buy all electricity generated by 29 wind turbines
that Eolus establishes in four wind farms in southern Sweden. The Power Purchase Agreement (PPA),
means that Google during ten years starting in early 2015 will buy all renewable electricity produced by
the 29 turbines of the models Vestas V90, V100 and V112.

Click here for the full original announcement

IN
NS

RE

iappsp : Cloud Computing | i8394 : Computer Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
c1521 : Analyst Comments/Recommendations | c1522 : Share Price Movement/Disruptions | npress :
Press Releases | c15 : Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat
: Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | melb : Melbourne | uk : United Kingdom | victor : Victoria (Australia) |
apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater
China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia |
eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe

IPD ACTIVITIES; BUSINESS NEWS ROUND UP
PUB News Bites Pty Ltd (Europe)
AN

Document NBPRCO0020140124ea1p005hb

Page234of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.