Peak Resources Limited - Funding and Technical Programs Update, Ngualla Rare Earth Project

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Peak Resources Limited - Funding and Technical Programs Update, Ngualla Rare Earth Project

1,089 words
9 December 2014
ENP Newswire
ENPNEW
English
(c) 2014, Electronic News Publishing. All Rights Reserved.

Release date - 08122014

Peak Resources Limited (ASX Code: PEK) is pleased to provide an update on progress in relation to the
receipt of funds from strategic partners and technical programs underway.

Peak has previously announced agreements with Appian Natural Resources Fund (‘Appian’) and the
International Finance Corporation (‘IFC’) to fund the development of the Ngualla Rare Earth Project and
Company through Bankable Feasibility Study for a total investment of US $25 million.

HIGHLIGHTS

IFC has completed its mandatory 30 day disclosure period and confirmed formal board approval of the
investment in Peak and the Ngualla Rare Earth Project.

All parties (Peak, Appian and IFC) continue to work co-operatively to complete the documentation for the
Principal Transaction, which is at an advanced stage and is expected to be finalized prior to the end of
January 2015.
All conditions precedent required for the second tranche of US $2 million of the Bridge Loan Facility have
now been met or extended and the funds are expected to be received by Peak this week.

A series of key development programs that have the potential to further improve the Ngualla Rare Earth
Projects attractive economics are now underway.

Strategic Partners
On 29 September 2014 Peak announced details of a ~US $25 million total funding agreement with
Jersey based Appian Natural Resources Fund. On completion, the investment is expected to fully fund
Peak and the Ngualla Rare Earth Project through the Bankable Feasibility Study (BFS).

Following the introduction by Appian, IFC is proposing to participate with Appian in the US $25million total
investment described above, on a 20:80% pro rata basis (IFC 20%; Appian 80%). IFC’s mandatory
disclosure period has now been completed and IFC’s Board has given approval to proceed
The first US $1 million (A$1.1 million) of the Bridge Loan Facility (‘BLF) was received in early October.
All conditions precedent required for the second tranche of US $2 million of the BLF have now been met
or extended and the additional funds are expected to be received this week.

All parties (Peak, Appian and IFC) continue to work co-operatively to complete the documentation for the
Principal Transaction, which is at an advanced stage and is expected to be finalized prior to the end of
January 2015.

About Appian
Appian Natural Resources Fund is a private equity fund which has been established to invest specifically
in the metals and mining sector. Appian has a uniquely collaborative investment approach that seeks to
partner with local owners, managers and investors to leverage its world-class operational and corporate

Page285of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.finance expertise. With this value-add approach and long-term investment horizon, it aims to generate
significant value for the investors and other stakeholders of both the Company and Appian.

About IFC

IFC, a member of the World Bank Group, is the largest global development institution focused exclusively
on the private sector. Working with private enterprises in about 100 countries, IFC use their capital,
expertise, and influence to help eliminate extreme poverty and boost shared prosperity. In FY14, IFC
provided more than $22 billion in financing to improve lives in developing countries and tackle the most
urgent challenges of development.

Technical work programs

The Bridge Loan Facility of US $3million has been agreed to allow Peak to progress key work programs
designed to evaluate the potential for further economic upside in the Ngualla Rare Earth Project whilst
formal documentation for the Principal Transaction is being completed.

Individual programs now underway include:
Beneficiation breakthrough confirmation work on varied ore samples
Beneficiation Optimisation programs in Australia and China

Leach recovery optimization for the high grade mineral concentrate

Location study for hydrometallurgical section of process plant

The further beneficiation programs will allow Peak to further investigate the ‘Beneficiation Breakthrough’
test work.

The beneficiation breakthrough test work produced a 34.4% rare earth oxide mineral concentrate from a
typical sample of Ngualla’s Bastnaesite Zone mineralization. This is double the concentrate grade
assumed in the Preliminary Feasibility Study.

The ability to produce a high grade mineral concentrate in the first process stage of beneficiation should
lower capital and operating costs due to smaller second stage acid leach recovery plant components and
reduced reagent use.

Additional tests using the ‘Beneficiation Breakthrough’ flowsheet have been completed at two Perth
laboratories on a number of additional samples of Ngualla’s mineralization during November. The work
has successfully repeated previous results, thereby increasing confidence in the robustness of the
process and the ability to produce a consistent high grade mineral concentrate.

Whilst the beneficiation breakthrough flowsheet is a bespoke flotation only process that has been
developed for the Ngualla style of mineralization, it is yet to be fully optimised. A beneficiation optimization
program has commenced in Perth to investigate the potential for further improvements in mineral
concentrate REO grades and / or recoveries.

Peak has also commissioned simultaneous beneficiation research programs at two technical institutes in
China that have extensive experience in rare earth processing. Preparation of a high grade mineral
concentrate from a 1.3 tonne bulk sample of mineralization using the ‘Beneficiation Breakthrough’
flowsheet has also commenced in Perth. The resulting mineral concentrate will be used as feed for
additional testwork on further improving and optimising the downstream acid recovery flowsheet.

The results of these beneficiation and leach recovery optimization programs will be used to design pilot
plants to provide operating data to assist in upscaling the developed processes to the commercial
operation. To this end, a 22 tonne bulk sample of typical mineralization has been collected by a trenching
program on site at Ngualla and is in transit to Australia to provide feed for the pilot plants. Design and
operation of the pilot plants will be completed in 2015 as part of the BFS.

The production of a high grade mineral concentrate may offer the potential to reduce Ngualla’s operating
costs by locating the subsequent recovery and separation stages of the processing plant close to port and
power facilities which should allow Peak to reduce reagent, transport and power costs.

The build out of the Peak team for the development studies has also commenced and we look forward to
providing further details on these appointments in due course.

Contact:

Page286of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Peak Resources Limited Level 2, 46 Ord Street West Perth Western Australia 6005 Tel: +61 8 9200 5360
Fax: +61 8 9226 3831 Email: info@peakresources.com.au

[Editorial queries for this story should be sent to newswire@enpublishing.co.uk]

CO
IN

peakrs : Peak Resources Ltd
iraremet : Rare Earth Metals | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i211 : Metal
Ore Mining | igoldm : Gold Ore Mining
npress : Press Releases | ncat : Content Types
waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia

NS
RE
PUB Electronic News Publishing Ltd.
AN

Document ENPNEW0020141209eac9000cb

Page287of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.