Kiwi shares take flight

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Kiwi shares take flight

Sally Rose
492 words
5 March 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
29
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

The New Zealand sharemarket looks set to continue outperforming the Australian market after hitting
a fresh record high on Tuesday.
Major structural reforms under way in China that threaten demand growth for Australia's biggest
exports, iron ore and coal, are boosting the world's appetite for New Zealand's main exports, dairy
and meat.

"While China's decision to shift from construction to consumption-led spending is hurting Australia,
New Zealand is a key beneficiary," said Phillip Anderson, an Auckland-based equity analyst at Devon
Funds Management. "Milk powder is our iron ore." 

Having breached 5000 points for the first time on Monday, the NZX 50 benchmark index added
another 0.5 per cent to 5033.3 on Tuesday. Unlike the United States, and now New Zealand, the ASX
is yet to match its pre-global financial crisis highs.

While New Zealand's primary producers thrive, a construction boom is underway. Investment in the
rebuilding of earthquake-hit Christchurch is estimated to exceed $NZ40 billion ($37.5 billion) over
the next decade .
"The domestic economic momentum is undeniably strong," Goldman Sachs New Zealand equity
analyst Marcus Curley said. Commentary from the Reserve Bank of New Zealand has been notably
more upbeat than that from the Reserve Bank of Australia.

Mr Anderson has observed increased interest from offshore fund managers in Kiwi stocks. Accounting
software company Xero has been a standout, up 425 per cent over the past 12 months. "Lots of local
fund managers are sceptical on Xero but it has attracted a lot of interest from the US," Mr Anderson
said.Fonterra stocks lag
Dairy giant Fonterra is the largest company in New Zealand. But while its profit growth over the past
year has helped the entire economy, the stock has been a laggard. Fonterra has a co-operative
structure and most of the windfall has gone to farmers rather than shareholders in the listed
processing side of the business.

Although the overall price to earnings ratio for the NZX 50 is now 17 times, which is historically high,
local fund managers are optimistic it will keep pushing higher.

Stephen Bennie, a partner and investment manager at Auckland's Castle Point Funds, said increased
domestic capital from a burgeoning superannuation industry is the biggest driver. Superannuation is
not mandated, but since 2008 the Inland Revenue Department has automatically registered all
working citizens to its retirement savings system, KiwiSaver. More than 60 per cent of people remain
in the scheme.

Page170of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."Currently around $NZ2 billion worth of KiwiSaver assets are invested in New Zealand equities and
looks set to double to $NZ4 billion by 2018. Australians know first-hand given the massive impact
that compulsory super can have on the local equity market," MrBennie said.
UBS Australian equity strategist David Cassidy said an increased volume of public private
partnerships and initial public offers coming to market had also given the NZX a boost.

IN
RE
PUB
AN

i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources
austr : Australia | nz : New Zealand | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140304ea350001u

Page171of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.