China sold on fibre plant

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
China sold on fibre plant

CAMERON ENGLAND CHIEF BUSINESS REPORTER
409 words
10 March 2014
The Advertiser
ADVTSR
Advertiser
26
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

PAPYRUS Australia has struck a deal with a Chinese investor group to set up a factory in Hainan, in
what could be a saviour for the struggling company.
The Adelaide firm has announced it has done a deal with the CIG to set up a banana fibre processing
plant and a banana fibre manufacturing factory in Hainan, which is an island province of China where
there are significant banana plantations.

Since listing in 2005 Papyrus has been trying to commercialise its process, which can make a variety of
paper and board products from banana fibres.
The company has claimed its paper-making process is much cheaper than traditional methods and
does not require the use of water, which is currently used in great amounts.
However, a series of agreements over the years have failed to lead to a profitable business model for
the company, which had a cash balance of just $118,220 at the end of December.
The new agreement obliges the Chinese entity to set up a company which Papyrus will have a 20 per
cent stake in.
The group will have to capitalise the new company to the tune of 20 million Chinese yuan, or $3.6
million. “CIG is also required to secure land and buildings for the factory and all Chinese Government
licenses,’’ Papyrus said.
A business plan will also be developed and agreed upon and the agreement should lead to early cash
flow, with the Chinese group committing to purchasing two plants.
“CIG is obliged to purchase at least one patented Papyrus banana veneering unit and one patented
Papyrus banana fibre production unit together with necessary proprietary fibre panel production
machinery to establish the first factory,” Papyrus said “The memorandum of agreement requires CIG to
pay a 50 per cent deposit for the patented Papyrus machinery by July 31, 2014.’’ Papyrus said the
products intended to be produced in the fibre processing plant were veneer and fibre. “And the products
to be manufactured in the banana fibre product manufacturing factory are fibre panels such as
chipboard, particle board and MDF panels, all for use in the furniture making and building construction
industries.
“CIG has committed to a five-stage program designed to achieve a successful business model in China
to meet the demands in China for decorative veneer and fibre board.’’Papyrus shares closed 0.2c higher
at 2.6c on Friday.

NS

gcat : Political/General News

Page163of270©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

PUB
AN

china : China | saustr : South Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
austr : Australia | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries |
dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document ADVTSR0020140309ea3a000ee

Page164of270©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.