HIGH RISK IN DEADLY HABIT

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
HIGH RISK IN DEADLY HABIT

Peter Michael
759 words
17 August 2014
Courier Mail
COUMAI
CourierMail
9
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

SPECIAL INVESTIGATION SYNTHETIC drug tzars are cashing in on the lucrative illicit black market
trade in Queensland, turning over tens of millions of dollars a year.

One self-described “entrepreneur” reportedly raked in $30,000 a day last year before his business
was busted by police.

The new counterculture was previously able to exploit legal loopholes to give users a mind-altering
high by changing the chemical makeup of synthetic drugs to keep ahead of police.

The State Government closed the loophole in April 2013, imposing a blanket ban on possessing or
selling substances other than alcohol, tobacco and food that have substantially the same effect as a
dangerous drug.

But a Sunday Mail special investigation has found stores throughout the state are still openly selling
illicit “psychoactive” drugs which mimic marijuana, cocaine, LSD and ecstasy in a disturbing new
trend.

These illegal synthetic drugs are discreetly being sold over-the-counter alongside adult porn, love
potions and lingerie.

Police describe the drugs as “poison”.

Health experts warn the synthetic molecules are often unknown and untested, with some having up to
100 times the active ingredient in illicit drugs such as cannabis, making users “guinea pigs” and
“crash-test dummies”.

Sex shop owners, along with tobacconists and alternative stores, behind the colossal online trade are
still the main suppliers despite new laws banning their sale in Queensland four months ago, The
Sunday Mail can reveal.

Synthetic cannabis – sold under the code name “tea” – was available from a store in the tropical party
town of Airlie Beach for $80 for a three-gram packet of a potpourri-like substance.
The Sunday Mail investigation found the sale of leafy highs, pills and powders was not confined to
partygoers and tourists on the glitter strips of Brisbane, the Gold Coast, Whitsundays and Cairns. The
“dot bong boom” is also popular in the mining towns of Mackay and Mount Isa and the defence
garrison city of Townsville, where workers use synthetic drugs to dodge in-house drug tests.

In four years, the sales of “mimic drugs” has gone from zero to a multimillion-dollar underground
industry, marketing up to 200 different brands of psychoactive drugs, authorities say.

A spate of deaths linked to synthetic drug use – including at least six recent cases in North
Queensland alone – is under investigation by the Queensland Coroner.

Page252of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Hospital staff across the Sunshine State also cite an alarming spike in cases of synthetic drug users
who turn up in emergency wards suffering psychosis, paranoia, and organ failure.

Doctors and experts at the National Drug and Alcohol Research Centre, headed by Dr Lucy Burns,
say the synthetic drug trade is a rapidly evolving phenomena in Australia.

“There are many horror stories,’’ Queensland Police synthetic drug expert Adam Frost said.

“Our biggest concern is often we don’t know what the hell is in this stuff. “Users are literally the
laboratory rats, the guinea pigs, for the effects of these constantly changing mimic drugs.

“Some can be mild. Others can be dangerous, and sometimes deadly.’’ Synthetic drugs can be
packaged as party pills, love potions, herbal highs, bath salts and even plant food.

They come in a range of flavours, including bubblegum, marketed with brand names such as K2,
Black Mamba, Smacked, Spice, Minga and N-Bombs.

One sex shop owner, who sells synthetic drugs, told The Sunday Mail: “Some people like to get high,
f---ed up or off their face.

“If they go to a shop, buy a bottle of Draino and stick it up their nose, then surely that is their choice,’’
said the owner, who asked not to be named.

“But if they do get f---ed up, get sick or die, then they reap the consequences of their own actions.”
Spanish tourist Sophia, 26, on the “Go Troppo” trail from Sydney to Cairns, said synthetic drugs were
popular on the backpacker party scene.

“It’s easy to find, if you know where to look, and what to ask for,” she said. “I tried some different stuff
but it’s not really my thing. I didn’t like it much.

“I’ve heard too many bad stories.’’ Illegal herbal products, in the case of synthetic cannabis, are
sprayed with chemically engineered substances similar to tetrahydrocannabinol, the active ingredient
in marijuana.Producers of these substances, some traced back to factories in China, sell in bulk on
the web, ship by postal courier, and tweak molecules to thwart detection by police scientists and stay
off the UN banned chemicals list.

NS

RE
PUB
AN

gdrug : Drug Trafficking/Dealing | gcat : Political/General News | gcrim : Crime/Courts | gtraff :
Trafficking/Smuggling
austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document COUMAI0020140817ea8h0003t

Page253of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.