DLA Piper launches leadership alliance for women in Australia

HD DLA Piper launches leadership alliance for women in Australia
WC 1,035 words
PD
3 April 2014
SN
News Bites - Private Companies
SC
NBPRCO
LA
English
CY
Copyright 2014. News Bites Pty Ltd.
LP

NEWS BITES - PRIVATE COMPANIES
[Company Release]

TD

DLA Piper launches its global Leadership Alliance for Women (LAW) program in Australia this month, with
inaugural events being held in Sydney and Perth as part of a global initiative to provide current and future
leaders with opportunities to build valuable business connections, develop client relationships and
strengthen leadership skills for future success.

DLA Piper launches its global Leadership Alliance for Women (LAW) program in Australia this month, with
inaugural events being held in Sydney and Perth as part of a global initiative to provide current and future
leaders with opportunities to build valuable business connections, develop client relationships and
strengthen leadership skills for future success.

"Meet the leaders: Inspiring women in business' marks the official LAW launch in Sydney on Wednesday 9
April. The event will feature well-known Australian media personality and current affairs journalist, Ellen
Fanning, as MC, with panellists Amanda Laing, Commercial Director and Group General Counsel, Nine
Entertainment; Bridget Powell, General Counsel, HSBC; and Victoria Weekes, Non-Executive Director and
Chair, OnePath Funds Management. Panellists are anticipated to discuss the concept of leadership
success as well as provide personal insights into their own careers including lessons learnt along the way.
Melinda Upton, DLA Piper partner, Head of Intellectual Property & Technology in Australia and LAW
committee chairperson said: "We are delighted to launch this important global initiative in Australia and
have already been overwhelmed by the enthusiasm and support from established and emerging business
leaders, both men and women, across the corporate and government sectors. LAW is the perfect platform
to demonstrate strong female leadership and inspire our future leaders."

Andrew Darwin, Country Managing Partner for DLA Piper in Australia added: "Diversity is at the heart of
our global firm's values and the way we do business. I am committed to achieving gender equality and
providing a workplace that is inclusive of difference and enables each individual to reach their full
potential. LAW not only reflects those core values, but it also supports and fosters business building skills
and leadership capabilities which are valuable to our firm, our clients and our individual lawyers."

Click here for the full original announcement
COMPANY BACKGROUND

ACTIVITIES
DLA provides legal advisory services. The firm's areas of practice include corporate, banking, litigation,
property and construction, human resources, insurance, shipping, intellectual property, and transport.
The firm is headquartered in London, United Kingdom with additional offices in Belgium, Denmark,
France, Germany, Hong Kong, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, and Russia.

BUSINESS NEWS ROUND UP
01 April 2014: DLA Piper recognized as a technology "Powerhouse" by BTI Consulting Group
[Company Release] DLA Piper is pleased to announce that the firm has been recognized as a technology
"Powerhouse" by the BTI Consulting Group in its newly published 2014 BTI Client Relationship
Scorecard. DLA Piper is pleased to announce that the firm has been recognized as a technology

Page113of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."Powerhouse" by the BTI Consulting Group in its newly published 2014 BTI Client Relationship
Scorecard. BTI also ranked DLA Piper number 20 out of 650 law firms serving large clients for having the
best client relationships, placing the firm on the "Power Elite" list. Between March and July 2013, BTI
conducted interviews with 300 corporate counsel at large and Fortune 1000 companies about what law
firm activities drive superior client relationships.

Click here for the full original announcement
01 April 2014: DLA Piper plays lead role advising on the Mersey Gateway project
[Company Release] DLA Piper has advised Halton Borough Council on the Pound600 million Mersey
Gateway Project, a major scheme to build a new six-lane toll bridge over the Mersey between Runcorn
and Widnes. DLA Piper has advised Halton Borough Council on the Pound600 million Mersey Gateway
Project, a major scheme to build a new six-lane toll bridge over the Mersey between Runcorn and Widnes.
One of the leading project finance mandates in the UK at present, the DLA Piper team advised on the
procurement of a private sector partner for the design, build, financing, operation and maintenance of the
new 1 km long cable-stayed bridge over the River Mersey and tolling of the crossings. This major project
saw the team provide advice on planning, land acquisition, compulsory purchase orders, tolling,
legislative frameworks and the implementation of new legislation, as well as providing strategic advice on
the procurement process, structural approaches and bespoke documentation for the bridge. The
multi-disciplinary DLA Piper team comprised lawyers from the firm's Finance & Projects, IPT, Real Estate
and Employment groups across its Manchester, Liverpool, Leeds and London offices.

Click here for the full original announcement

01 April 2014: DLA Piper successfully defends St. Jude Medical in guidewire patent infringement case
[Company Release] DLA Piper has secured the dismissal of patent infringement claims against
subsidiaries of St. Jude Medical Inc., a global medical device manufacturer, by device maker Volcano
Corp. DLA Piper has secured the dismissal of patent infringement claims against subsidiaries of St.

Click here for the full original announcement

31 March 2014: Israeli Investors And Industry Leaders Gather At Dla Piper's 2nd Annual Global Real
Estate Conference In Tel Aviv
[Company Release] On Monday, March 24, DLA Piper hosted its 2nd Israeli Global Real Estate
Conference in Tel Aviv. The event provided perspectives on current trends and the future outlook of the
real estate markets in Europe, Asia and the United States for Israeli-based companies seeking to diversify
their real estate capital investments.

Click here for the full original announcement

31 March 2014: Dla Piper Runs Fifth Training School For Next Generation Of Tanzanian Lawyers
[Company Release] DLA Piper, in conjunction with its client General Electric (GE) and DLA Piper Africa
Group firm IMMMA Advocates, today begins a teaching course at the Law School of Tanzania for the fifth
consecutive year. DLA Piper, in conjunction with its client General Electric (GE) and DLA Piper Africa
Group firm IMMMA Advocates, today begins a teaching course at the Law School of Tanzania for the fifth
consecutive year. The project was developed in close collaboration with Dr Gerald Ndika, the Law
School's Principal.

Click here for the full original announcement

CO diblup : DLA Piper
IN
NS

i835 : Legal Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
c133 : Patents | c1521 : Analyst Comments/Recommendations | c1522 : Share Price
Movement/Disruptions | npress : Press Releases | cpartn : Partnerships/Collaborations | c11 :
Plans/Strategy | c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | c15 : Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections |
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | cgymtr : Intellectual Property | cinprp : Industrial Property Rights
(Patents/Trademarks) | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin :
FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | uk : United Kingdom | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
| eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | nswals : New South Wales | weurz : Western Europe

RE

IPD ACTIVITIES; BUSINESS NEWS ROUND UP

Page114of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB News Bites Pty Ltd (Europe)
AN Document NBPRCO0020140403ea43001gu

Page115of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.