Swiss private equity targets rural assets for $300m fund EXCLUSIVE

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Finance
Swiss private equity targets rural assets for $300m fund EXCLUSIVE

SUE NEALES, RURAL REPORTER
742 words
21 March 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
1 - All-round Country
17
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

ONE of Europe's largest private equity and managed fund investors is in Australia scoping major
acquisitions for its new $US300 million ($332m) specialist agricultural vehicle, the Harvested
Resources Fund.
Swiss firm Adveq Real Assets, which currently has $US5.4 billion of assets under management
worldwide, has already made a major rural purchase in Australia through HRF, as part of a
consortium that bought 18,000ha of almond orchards on the Murray River near Robinvale last month
for $211m from Olam International.

Adveq Asia-Pacific head David Seex said yesterday its Harvested Resources Fund had contributed
$37m, or 11 per cent of the purchase price of the Australian almond deal, with two major
international pension funds, US-based Municipal Employees' Retirement System of Michigan and the
$US57bn Danish Danica Pension Fund contributing the other $110m of equity.

Now the still-open Harvested Resources Fund is looking to make nine other big farming acquisitions
worldwide, each averaging about $US30m, within the next three years.

Mr Seex said all of the nine potential purchases had been identified, with ``more than

one'' being Australian rural assets.

The Adveq chief said that Australian farms were particularly attractive to form the asset base of the
HRF, which had already attracted $US136m in funds, because the land tenure system was secure,
land is still relatively cheap,

Continued on Page 18

Continued from Page 17

infrastructure standards were high and crops were produced in what were off-seasons to the northern
hemisphere.
A bonus is Australia's proximity to the emerging mega-market of China, which last week was forecast
by the Economist Intelligence Unit to buy an astounding 59 per cent of all Australia food and rural
exports by 2030.

He also rejected suggestions from other corporate investors that had bought Australian farming
interests and say it is impossible to make an adequate return on capital investment in Australian
agriculture because of the vagaries of the weather.
Adveq locked in an advantageous 9 per cent rental yield on the purchase, indexed for uncapped
inflation, when it bought the three million Victorian almond trees from Olam in February -- and
immediately leased them back to Olam, which is now fully owned by the Singapore government fund
Temasek Holdings.

Page270of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.``Australia is also an environment where there is high visibility in what we can expect; each
transaction tends to be specific about the asset and the crop,'' Mr Seex told The Australian yesterday.

``What we are looking for are agricultural products that are highly (linked) to the fundamental food
story. This is about the crops and animal products the land produces, not a real estate (speculative)
play.''

Mr Seex said other agricultural fields identified by Adveq where Australia had a comparative
advantage included beef and dairy farming, as well as nuts and olives.

But there are few such farming ventures big enough to have the $20-$30m price tag that Adveq is
looking for. However, Mr Seex did concede the Harvested Resources Fund has been scoping dairy
opportunities in Tasmania, where Australia's largest dairying venture, the Van Diemen's Land
company in northwest Tasmania, is for sale.

Other rural opportunities around the world being investigated by Adveq for inclusion in the HRF,
which will close off to investors in May this year, include sorghum, grains and other nut crops.

``But it's not just about the crops we like, but the deal on offer,'' Mr Seex said. ``If the price is
attractive, the commodity is right, the returns sustainable and it fits our diversification model we will
invest. For example, the almond orchards were a good price at below replacement cost because
Olam wanted to restructure its balance sheet.''

Mr Seex said a key factor in HRF's investment focus was to invest in crops and farming systems that
required minimal costly inputs such as electricity, fuel, irrigation water and labour, effectively ruling
out many horticultural and intensive farming operations such as hothouse crops, piggeries and
intensive poultry farms.

Farms and raw food production are also the top priority assets being targeted, with downstream food
manufacturing or processing assets unattractive, because of the unpredictable nature of future input
costs such as energy.

Mr Seex believed Australia was well-served by top quality, well-educated farm managers and rural
asset managers who can look after local agricultural investments for large global private equity
players such as Adveq.

CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

ddb : Danske Bank A/S | olamil : Olam International Limited
i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150203 : Private Equity | iinv : Investing/Securities |
ialtinv : Alternative Investments | ifinal : Financial Services | i61 : Wholesalers | i64 : Retail/Wholesale
| i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifodwh : Food Wholesaling
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | reqris : Suggested Reading Investing/Securities | redit : Selection of
Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | switz : Switzerland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | dach : DACH
Countries | eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140320ea3l0004o

Page271of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.