OZ needs to shed one-trick tag

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
OZ needs to shed one-trick tag

Michael Smith
1,369 words
16 January 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
28
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Michael Smith
OZ Minerals boss Terry Burgess is not the only mining chief who was caught out by sinking commodity
prices but he is guilty of over-promising and under-delivering.

A lot is being made about the fact that the copper and goldminer's cash pile has dwindled from almost
$1 billion three years ago to $363 million with little to show for it.

OZ Mineral's cash position unnerved investors last year, making the heavily shorted stock one of the
worst-performing Australian companies in 2013. Ironically, the company's cash position was the reason
behind a 14 per cent share price jump on Wednesday.

OZ Minerals took the unusual step of pushing forward its quarterly production report and detailing its
cash holdings (something normally reserved for the full-year earnings report) because consensus
forecasts were so out of whack with reality. The cash holdings were at $363 million which was
$100 million more than Macquarie and many other broking houses' estimates.
The market has reason to be pessimistic about OZ Minerals after a rough year which saw the company
shed half its market value. It warned in October it would again fail to meet its production targets due to
issues at its Prominent Hill copper and goldmine in South Australia.
Analysts were taking into account the company's generous dividend payouts and weak revenues when
they made the latest cash forecasts. But it turns out things were not as bad as they feared because of
lower costs and capex.Positive track record Unlike some smaller resources houses, OZ Minerals has a
good track record when it comes to disclosure and transparency but it still needs to manage market
expectations which have resulted in wild fluctuations in its share price in the last 12 months.
Burgess is frustrated by the heavy short-selling in the company, as well as the way analysts arrive at
their forecasts, which he says has caused him a lot of grief. He says the market is basing forecasts on
information which is sometimes out of date, cash cannot be looked at in isolation and it was dangerous
to work off unaudited numbers which depended on the timing of shipments and payments.

Companies like OZ Minerals do not have the luxury of selectively briefing analysts and steering them on
their guidance as well, an issue which still haunts Newcrest Mining which upped its gold production
guidance on Wednesday.

The size of OZ Mineral's cash pile is important because there is still enormous pressure on the
company to make acquisitions and diversify.
The company was birthed out of the 2008 merger of Oxiana and Zinifex. It was in a precarious position
shortly afterwards but managed to retire the debt which threatened to bring it down through the
$US1.35 billion sale of assets to China Minmetals.

Page160of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Prominent Hill was excluded from that controversial deal though after former treasurer Wayne Swan
blocked the Chinese firm from buying Prominent Hill as part of the package because of the sensitivity
of its location on the Woomera weapons testing site in South Australia.Prominent uncertainty

Investors are worried OZ Minerals has too much reliance on this one asset. Burgess disagrees and
believes the company is well set up for 2014. There is there is still a lot of uncertainty in the market
around the true value of Prominent Hill though. Part of the problem has been lower than expected
copper grades although this improved in the latest quarterly numbers. There are also ongoing jitters
around a potential production gap if Prominent Hills closes before the company's Carrapateena
copper project starts producing.
OZ Minerals still needs to prove it is not just a one-trick pony. Without the tail wind of rising commodity
prices, all miners need to show they can add value to assets through things they can control.

Burgess has made progress on costs, which was reflected in the market's positive reaction to
production figures on Wednesday. Cash costs of $US1.80 per pound of copper beat RBC Capital
Market's forecasts of $US1.90 to $US2.05.
Investors are divided over whether Burgess has whittled the company's cash reserves away, or
whether his prudent approach to potential acquisitions has actually saved the company from a terrible
mistake.
Prudency is the name of the game in the mining industry these days. It is almost impossible to raise
equity and cash is king. Companies with the firepower to actually do a deal if the right one comes along
are in a good position. "There is more prudency," Burgess, who says he is always looking at potential
acquisitions, told this columnist. "If you are ask me what is my most important challenge for 2014, it is to
make the production we say we will but importantly to keep our costs down."
"There is a lot of activity behind the scenes and the biggest challenge with M&A is that unless you make
a big announcement people think you are doing nothing."

Burgess also disputes the money has been whittled away. OZ Minerals has given shareholders
$1.2 billion in the last four years in the form of dividends, capital return and a buyback. It acquired
Carrapateena for $250 million and another $150 million has been spent on exploration and
development, as well as a 19.9 per cent stake in Sandfire Resources. OZ Minerals shares are trading
around half the price they were at a year ago, giving the company a market capitalisation of around
$1 billion. But Sandfire's share price has doubled since OZ Minerals acquired its stake for around
$100 million in 2010. The company is now worth almost as much as OZ Minerals.Harder times

It is no secret miners splashed cash around unwisely during the good times and there has been a
seismic shift in a sector that has not always done a good job of managing capital well.

Miners have now been forced to pander to the appetite for yield, sometimes at the risk of diversification
or expansion.

This has been reflected on the capital austerity of senior miners like BHP Billiton, Rio Tinto
and Fortescue.

This shift in thinking was reflected in Fortescue Metals' announcement on Wednesday that it was
paying down another $US1.6 billion in debt.
This move means the iron ore miner has cut its gross debt from $US12.7 billion to $US9.6 billion.
More than $US3 billion of that was paid down since November.

And there is more to come.

JPMorgan Chase bids

Macquarie Group's abundance of capital is back in the spotlight as the Australian bank is linked to a
possible bid for JPMorgan Chase's commodities business.

An unconfirmed report on CNBC said Macquarie is one of the shortlisted bidders for an asset that may
fetch as much as $US2 billion ($2.21 billion). Macquarie is adept at not giving anything away and is
no doubt looking at multiple acquisitions so there is no certainty about how serious this potential deal is.
Certainly, chief executive Nicholas Moore has the capital to deploy and, with $2.8 billion on hand to
invest, Macquarie will be looking at a wide range of assets.

Page161of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Moore is under pressure to do a deal. The bank was pipped by Westpac Banking Corp for Lloyds
Group's motor vehicle financing and corporate loan portfolio last year. It also lost out on a bid for British
fund management Scottish Widows Investment Partnership.

But Moore is an opportunist when it comes to acquisitions and is not the type of CEO who will overpay
for anything. With Blackstone and US investment company Castleton Commodities also reportedly
lining up for the JPMorgan assets, there is likely to be bidding tension.

Buying the JPMorgan business, which includes physical assets such as a global metal warehouse
network, energy supply agreement and power plants, would be its biggest deal in years.
Macquarie would like to repeat the success of its $US428 million acquisition of fund manager
Delaware Investments in the United States in 2009.

michael.smith@afr.com.au Twitter @MikeSmithAFR

Michael Smith

Matthew Stevens is on leave

CO
IN
NS
RE
PUB
AN

golpla : OZ Minerals Limited
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140115ea1g0000v

Page162of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.