Boom threatens the great Australian dream of a home

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Boom threatens the great Australian dream of a home

Michael Bleby
2,127 words
5 April 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
10
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

As house prices soar, traditional investment trends are shifting, writes Michael Bleby.

At the age of 29, Nicole Haddow moved back home to save for a house deposit. For the author and
social media manager, moving back in with her parents after four years of renting wasn't easy, but was
a necessary trade-off to try to get a foot on the bottom rung of a property ladder that was getting higher
and higher off the ground.

"It just seemed that I would be chasing constantly rising prices," she says. "The longer I waited the
bigger the deposit I would have needed. I bit the bullet and went home."
In February, Haddow succeeded in purchasing a two-bedroom apartment in Mordialloc in bayside
Melbourne. But in a country in which fewer and fewer young people are buying houses, she is an
increasing standout.

Home ownership among her age bracket of 25 to 34-year-olds dropped to less than half (47 per cent) in
2011 from more than two-thirds (61 per cent) just three decades earlier in 1981, census figures show.

This is just one strand of a changing and increasingly complicated housing market - one that Reserve
Bank governor Glenn Stevens last week confirmed was going through a "boom".
His use of the word in a speech in Hong Kong raised eyebrows, while the central bank's decision this
week to keep its benchmark rate on hold at a record-low 2.5 per cent - even as house prices have
continued their upward gallop - caused others to warn of a bubble.

On Friday, Barclays chief economist Kieran Davies said Australian household debt had hit a record 177
per cent of annual disposable income and that house prices were equal to 4.3 times annual income and
28 times annual rent, within a "fraction" of their historic highs.

And figures out earlier this week reinforced the strength of the market, with RP Data figures showing
Sydney's median house value soared 15.6 per cent in March from a year earlier.

In Melbourne, which this weekend experiences its second straight "Super Saturday" with more than
1000 properties going to auction, values rose 11.6 per cent on the year. Both were above the national
median figure of 10.6 per cent.

Even Stevens, who explicitly said the market was not in bubble territory, this week chose to warn that
investing in housing was not a "sure bet" and that prices could fall, as they have done in Sydney over
the past decade.

But Stevens and many others are, in fact, counting on the housing boom and the construction industry it
drives to keep things ticking over as the economy's resource-fuelled sugar hit subsides.

Page9of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Planning approvals for new houses - a leading indicator of construction to come - slipped in February
after a surge in January, but remained 23 per cent above their number a year earlier.

Amid this flurry of activity, profound changes are taking place in Australia's housing market, sparking a
debate about who buys property and how they buy it.

A growing population, changing household structures and signs of a greater appetite for renting, rather
than buying, are all changing the ways we think about housing.

Some are choosing to forgo the great Australian dream of the family house on the quarter-acre block in
exchange for a shorter commute and closer proximity to urban centres with better-paying jobs and
opportunities.

As Stevens said, a bubble is unlikely. More housing stock is needed to make up for a decade of
underinvestment in the country's largest city, Sydney - whose 4.4 million residents made up one-fifth of
the total population in 2011 - and to accommodate the predictions for a national population that the ABS
says could nearly double to 40 million by 2060.

But debates are also raging about whether tax incentives, most notably negative gearing, actually draw
productive investment that helps build new housing, or whether they just push up the price of existing
housing stock, to the benefit of those fortunate enough to already own property.

Home ownership across the whole population has slipped over the past two decades - to 67 per cent in
2011 from 70 per cent in 1991 - and the representation of first home buyers in the Australian housing
market has also been falling. As of January, first home buyers accounted for just 10 per cent of the
housing market, less than half of the 24 per cent they represented in October 2009, figures by research
company BIS Shrapnel show.

Over the same period, investors (both local and from overseas) as well as people upgrading to a bigger
property or downsizing (such as baby boomers who are selling the family home and getting an
apartment) were buying more properties.
The introduction of the GST in 2000 under John Howard dampened first home buyer purchases while
the first home buyer grant, given a boost in 2009 by Kevin Rudd's government as a part of wider efforts
to stimulate the economy in the wake of the global financial crisis, turbocharged it.

"There's been a secular trend from something like 20 per cent to more like the 15 per cent we would
regard as normal now," says BIS Shrapnel associate director Kim Hawtrey. "But it's currently 10 per
cent."

Affordability is one reason for the trend.

House prices have grown more expensive relative to incomes. Another is the issue of deposits. As
Haddow points out, rising prices would have meant the deposit she needed to secure a mortgage -
about 10 per cent in her case - kept going up.

But housing affordability isn't just a problem for middle-class Australia. Concern about a lack of
affordable housing has prompted a Senate inquiry - due to report in June - on the regimes of incentives,
planning and funding that currently affect the supply of affordable housing for the country's most
vulnerable and less well-off.

One key part of this is negative gearing, that almost uniquely Australian habit of permitting housing
investors to offset their income made elsewhere with losses they make on a property investment.
Two years ago Paul Farley bought a one-bedroom apartment off the plan in a complex in Melbourne's
St Kilda. Rather than living in it, the professional property manager chose to rent another one in the
same complex.

"I could pay rent for the one and negatively gear the other," he says. "If you had two identical flats,
you're better off not living in your own, but renting one." Critics, such as Aussie Home Loans boss John
Symond, say negative gearing, along with capital gains tax and other discounts, inflates property prices
and should be phased out.

Not so, Hawtrey counters. Any capital going into housing should be welcomed. "I don't see negative
gearing as the problem, as it generally increases supply by attracting capital into the property asset
class as opposed to other asset classes," Hawtrey says.

Page10of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Economist Saul Eslake is also scathing of tax benefits, along with the direct handouts that take the form
of first home buyer grants, saying that without removing the blockages that continue to restrict the
growth in housing supply, they are misguided and damaging fiscal tools.

"The ostensible benefits of those policies have in effect been expropriated by the people who owned
homes at the beginning of the 1990s," Eslake says. "What government policy has done has been to
inflate the demand for housing by giving more money to buy it with, whilst local governments have
constricted the supply of housing through their urban land use and planning policies and by changes in
the way they charge for the provision of suburban infrastructure."

It is clear, however, that something will need to be done and a day of reckoning may yet come in the
property investment market for Australians.

Eslake says that with more than 1 million taxpaying and voting Australians enjoying negative gearing - a
long-established feature of the economy - no politician will dare take it away. It would be easier, he
says, for a federal government to simply stop new people adopting the measure.

"If you say it's too hard to take the benefits away from people who have entered into it in good faith,
doesn't mean you have to continue extending it to all others in perpetuity," he says.
The nature of Australian property investment is changing in any event, but not in ways many people
imagine.

The burgeoning self-managed super fund industry insists that it is not distorting the market.
DIY funds have increased their exposure to property over the past four years - but as of December last
year just 3.57 per cent, or $19.4 billion of the $543.4 billion held by SMSFs were in residential real
estate.
In fact, SMSF exposure to commercial property was three times as great, at almost $64.9 billion - and
has grown even faster than residential investment - principally because of the tax benefits that
commercial properties get from depreciation.

Nor is it the case that overseas investors are taking over the country. While the value of approvals of
residential real estate by the Foreign Investment Review Board grew last year to $5.4 billion - up from
$2.9 billion a year earlier - this was less than 3.2 per cent of the $185 billion Australians borrowed from
banks to finance residential real estate purchases in the same time.
If the cash, rather than bank loans, Australians used to buy housing is added to the total, the foreign
investment becomes even smaller by comparison.

"That's swamped multiple times by the amount Australians put in," Eslake says. "For the most part, it's
people in their 40s and upwards who are driving the upward pressure on prices."

Another change is creeping into the housing market, however. The inevitable move towards more
dense living in urban areas - as people choose to move up, rather than out - is driving a proportionately
greater investment in apartments than ever before.

While detached houses have traditionally accounted for two-thirds of new house commencements, with
high-rise and townhouses making up the rest, that proportion has been shrinking and is likely to be
closer to between 56 and 44 per cent, research company Macromonitor says.

Over the next decade, so-called other dwellings - not stand-alone houses - are expected to make up a
larger share (37 per cent ) of commencements than previously (32 per cent from 2000-01 to 2009-10).
In NSW the proportion of high-rise and townhouse dwellings will rise to 57 per cent of all
commencements over the next decade, driven by Sydney's push towards infill development and
higher-density living near existing infrastructure.
At the same time, the proportion of people settling for apartment life as long-term renters is growing, as
is the case in Europe, where people rent and have less of their personal wealth tied up in property.
This trend will change the nature of property investment into a more professional game, and less of a
mums-and-dads game than it has been in the past.

"The traditional people who bought their first flat as an investment and have had it for 30 years - the
mums and dads - is changing considerably to more astute investors who have a portfolio of shares, or
investments or property altogether, and they look at it as an investment product far more," says Little
Residential chief executive Phil Meggs, whose company seeks to tap that trend by developing
apartments, selling them and then managing them for investors.

Page11of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The world of property has changed in Australia from the market it once was. As the retiring baby
boomers live longer than their own parents and hold onto their dwellings for longer, as the population
grows and as inefficiencies hold up the development of new properties, the way Australians live and pay
for that accommodation will change.
For many people, this will simply mean not owning property, as their parents' generation did.

"I'm surprised there isn't more anger among young people about the way in which the housing system
has been rigged against them by their parents," Eslake says. "Perhaps young people are getting their
revenge by refusing to move out of their parents' homes!"

Haddow, for her part, is staying with her parents for a few more weeks to boost her savings before she
joins Australia's dwindling ranks of owner-occupiers. This weekend, hundreds more people will flock to
auctions hoping to join those ranks. The current boom - as declared by Stevens - means it may well be
harder than ever.

NS
RE

PUB
AN

ereal : Real Estate Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | sydney : Sydney | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South Wales
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020140404ea4500046

Page12of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.