Greenland grabs city site for $45m

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Greenland grabs city site for $45m

Mercedes Ruehl and Samantha Hutchinson
504 words
20 March 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
44
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Chinese real estate developer Greenland has snatched up a high-profile hectare of land in
Leichhardt in Sydney's inner-west for a believed price of around $45 million.

The former Kolotex hosiery and Labelcraft factory at 22 George Street has an indicative architectural
scheme for about 244 apartments. It was put up for sale by JGL Investments, a private investment
vehicle of the Liberman family.

The sale makes JGL the latest in a wave of inner-city land owners to cash in on growing demand for
residential development sites, against a backdrop of house price growth tipping 14.2 per cent across
the city in 12 months.

Colliers International's Guillaume Volz and Ryan Bennetts were the selling agents but both declined
to comment when contacted by The Australian Financial Review.
It is understood that the very active and asset hungry Greenland is the company running due
diligence on the Leichhardt site. The group declined to comment when contacted.
Harry Triguboff's Meriton Apartments, which last week bought a $47.5 million residential
development site in Sydney's Zetland, was the believed underbidder on the asset. Two additional
Chinese developers are also understood to have been in contention for the property.

Meriton has also been quick to respond to the demand for apartments by buying prime parcels of
land in Sydney middle ring suburbs, including Rosebery and Homebush.

Colliers International told the Financial Review when it was marketing the land that it was located in
one of Sydney's most undersupplied markets. There have only been 22 new apartments built in
Leichhardt since 2009, agents said.

Located 8 kilometres from the Sydney CBD and 300 metres from Sydney's $178 million new light
railway extension, the former factory site was occupied by apparel manufacturer Pacific Brands until
2003.

It was rezoned to mixed-use, medium density from industrial in a controversial decision by the NSW
Department of Planning and Infrastructure in 2012. More than 600 residents rallied against the
rezoning and accompanying apartment development application, while Mayor Darcy Byrne branded
the plan an 'overdevelopment' which would cripple the suburb with congestion.

While the number of apartments approved is not expected to change, the new owner will have to
submit plans to the local council outlining its final form for review and approval.
The Chinese state-owned developer Greenland already has a handful of ambitious apartment
projects on the go, and is a prominent presence scouting most brownfield sites on both Sydney and
Melbourne's middle rings.

Page139of315©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Greenland's highest profile development is the former Water Board site in Sydney's CBD, which will
be the city's tallest tower. Greenland will also build a 171-room boutique hotel next to it, to be called
the Greenland Primus Hotel.
In Melbourne, the group inked a deal worth more than $45 million in October for a slab of land at
Flemington owned by Victorian Racing Club, with capacity for more than 1000 apartments.

CO
IN
NS
RE

PUB
AN

jglinv : J G L INVESTMENTS
ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | greenl : Greenland | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | namz : North America | nswals : New South Wales
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140319ea3k0004g

Page140of315©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.