Herbert Smith Freehills: M &A Market in Asia Pacific ends 2013 on a High

HD Herbert Smith Freehills: M&A Market in Asia Pacific ends 2013 on a High
CR Distributed by Contify.com
WC 996 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

8 January 2014
Singapore Government News
ATGVSG
English
Copyright © 2014. Contify.com

TD

Singapore, Jan. 8 -- The M&A; market in Asia Pacific enjoyed a strong resurgence in the last quarter of
2013, with increased activity across a range of sectors and larger deal values demonstrating a renewed
confidence and a positive outlook for 2014, according to Rebecca Maslen-Stannage partner at Herbert
Smith Freehills.
"The first nine months of 2013 were challenging for M&A; markets across Asia Pacific. However, in the
last quarter we witnessed a strong turn-around with firms in a sprint to the finish of what was an otherwise
moderate year. We've started to see a considerable return to confidence and I would expect to see further
improvement in 2014," commented Maslen-Stannage.

Thomson Reuters' latest M&A; Legal Advisor League Tables show that in 2013 deal volumes in Australia
reached US$107.2 billion - an increase of 22.5% on 2012, while the value of announced M&A; deals in
Asia rose by 1.6% to a total value of US$459.9 billion.
"Considering that in 2013 global M&A; deal value declined by 6% and the number of deals also fell, Asia
Pacific's M&A; performance is very impressive." said Maslen-Stannage.
"A bright spot in global M&A; was the return of buyside private equity activity, which was up 22% globally.
However, in this region, we're also seeing substantial increases in activity across a range of sectors
including property, infrastructure, industrials and healthcare. This broad market bounce provides further
promise of a robust 2014," commented Maslen-Stannage.
"Three months ago, we predicted that there would be a jump in M&A; activity in the last quarter of 2013
followed by a positive 2014. It's a welcome development to see our predictions now being reflected in the
market," said Simon Haddy, partner at Herbert Smith Freehills.
M&A; performance across the region:

Australia
According to Simon Haddy, in 2013 Australia's M&A; market was bolstered by a wave of demergers:
"Demergers were prominent in 2013, particularly in the last quarter, as investors looked for new ways to
unlock value and drive shareholder returns. We saw many high profile examples including Westfield,
Brambles and Amcor."

Along with a rise in demergers and increased finance sector investment, the Australian market also
benefited from a rush of IPO activity in the last quarter.
"M&A; typically follows IPO activity and 2013 was a strong year for IPOs, with a six-fold increase in IPO
fund raising compared to the previous year. With a number of high profile businesses expected to float in
2014, we can anticipate continued growth," said Haddy.
According to the Thomson Reuters' M&A; Legal Advisor League Tables, in 2013 Australian cross border
activity totalled US$43.1 billion; the materials sector led the inbound investments market with a 27.8%
share, while outbound activity reached US$13.7 billion.

Asia
Austin Sweeney, a Hong Kong-based partner of Herbert Smith Freehills said, "2013 was a quiet year for
capital markets in Asia, however since November the market started to open up and a number of potential

Page232of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.launches that had been in the pipeline for the past two to three years, started to take place. M&A; also
picked up in the last quarter of the year."
"For instance, there were a good number of investments into the US, Australia and Europe from Chinese
companies, especially in the commercial and residential real estate sectors."

In Asia in 2013, outbound investment increased by 11.3% compared to the previous year, led by the
energy and power sector (representing 42.3% of the market share). China performed well in cross-border
activity increasing 6.3% on 2012.

"Looking ahead, I expect there to be some further market improvement in 2014. Privately owned
enterprises in China are already on the lookout for good value M&A; targets - an opportunistic
consequence of the low prices of target corporations following a slow year. In addition, I hope to see more
of China's state-owned enterprises look outside their home markets for new sources of revenue growth,"
explained Sweeney.
Herbert Smith Freehills is cementing its position as the leading legal advisor for M&A; in Asia Pacific. The
firm again performed strongly in the Thomson Reuters M&A; Legal Advisor League Tables for Asia Pacific
including ranking first by value of announced and completed deals in Asia Pacific (ex-Japan). The firm
also ranked first by value and number of announced and completed deals in Australia and New Zealand.
Globally, the firm was ranked 13th in terms of announced deals.

Herbert Smith Freehills advised on some of Asia Pacific's most strategic and market defining deals of
2013, illustrating the strength, flexibility and diversity of the firm's capabilities. Highlights include advising;
Axiata on the acquisition of Smart Mobile in Cambodia; China National Petroleum Corporation on its
acquisition of a 28.57% stake in Eni East Africa SpA, a wholly owned subsidiary of Eni SpA, for US$4.2
billion; Mitsui & Co. Ltd, on its acquisition of 28% equity stake in International Power (Australia)
Holdings Pty Ltd from French electric utility companyGDF SUEZ S.A; Goldman Sachs on its investment
into the Indian cable television services company Den Networks; Wesfarmers on its sale of the insurance
division to Insurance Australia Group; NSW Ports Consortium on its successful bid for Port Botany and
Port Kembla; Fairfax Media on its sale of Stayz; Commonwealth Bank of Australia in relation to the
proposed takeover bids announced for Commonwealth Property Office Fund; Murray Goulburn on its
takeover bid for Warrnambool Cheese & Butter; TPG Capital on its acquisition of Ingham Enterprises;
and Australian Infrastructure Fund on the sale of its Australian and European airport assets to Future
Fund.

CO freeho : Freehills
IN
NS

i835 : Legal Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB Athena Information Solutions Pvt. Ltd.
AN Document ATGVSG0020140109ea18000h2

Page233of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.