Glencore, Jinchuan frontrunners to buy BHP''s Nickel West

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Glencore, Jinchuan frontrunners to buy BHP''s Nickel West

513 words
28 August 2014
00:05
Mist News
MISTNW
English
(c) 2014 Misr Information Services and Trading. All Rights Reserved.

(Reuters) - Commodities trader and miner Glencore and Chinese nickel producer Jinchuan Group are
the frontrunners to buy BHP Billiton''s Australian Nickel West division, two sources close to the
situation said.
BHP, the world''s largest mining company, announced plans last week to spin off businesses worth
an estimated $16 billion but said that Nickel West in western Australia would not be part of the
demerged group.

Chief Executive Andrew Mackenzie has said the company was in talks with potential buyers for all or
part of Nickel West.

Estimates of the value of Nickel West vary greatly, with some analysts and industry sources putting it
at anything up to $1 billion and others tagging negative figures to an asset they say is burning cash.

"It''s a race between Glencore and Jinchuan now," the first source said.

Jinchuan is “very interested” in Nickel West and plans to ship about 30,000 tonnes of nickel
concentrate to China if it takes over the business, said the China-based second industry source, who
had been briefed about the plan but declined to be named because of the sensitive nature of the
matter.
Other companies initially said to be interested in Nickel West were X2, a mining business founded by
former Xstrata chief Mick Davis, andcommodities trader Trafigura [TRAFGF.UL], but two sources said
that both lost interest after reviewing the asset.

Glencore, X2, BHP and Trafigura declined to comment.
Calls to a Jinchuan spokesman at Jinchuan Group''s headquarters in China''s northwestern province
of Gansu were not answered. A senior executive at Jinchuan’s listed arm Jinchuan Group International
Resources Co in Hong Kong was not immediately available for comment.
CHINESE COMPETITION
London-listed Glencore, which completed the acquisition of rival Xstrata a little more than a year ago,
recently received $6.5 billion from the sale of its Peruvian copper project Las Bambas to a Chinese
consortium and said it intended to use about a third of the money for acquisitions.
It has already spent $1.5 billion buying Chad-focused oil firm Caracal.

Jinchuan, however, is keen to get its hands on Nickel West, according to the sources.
Even as demand growth has slowed in the past couple of years, China''s appetite for metals, which
are strategic for its development, remains high.
The sale of Las Bambas was a condition imposed by Chinese regulators to give Glencore the
green-light for its acquisition of Xstrata, for example.

Page80of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Interest in nickel projects has shot up since Indonesia banned exports of unprocessed nickel this year
to encourage investment in smelters within the country.
Indonesia was a key supplier to Chinese nickel pig iron producers and the ban has boosted prices for
the stainless steel ingredient by more than a third this year.

BHP in May started its review of Nickel West, which is made up of the Mt Keith, Cliffs and Leinster
mines, concentrators, the 100,000 tonne-a-year Kalgoorlie smelter and the 60,000 tonne-a-year
Kwinana refinery in Western Australia.

CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | march : Glencore PLC | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2114 : Copper Ore/Nickel Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources |
imet : Mining/Quarrying | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
cspin : Spin-offs | c02 : Corporate Changes | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | cncc : New Companies Creation | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz
: Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Misr Information Services and Trading
Document MISTNW0020140827ea8r0018l

Page81of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.