The China syndrome: local buyers priced out

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
The China syndrome: local buyers priced out

Max Mason
607 words
6 March 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
3
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Property - One-fifth of new homes bought by foreign investors
Close to one-fifth of new properties in Sydney are being bought by wealthy Chinese investors and
the flood of money is set to continue.

Using data from the Australian Bureau of Statistics and the Foreign Investment Review Board,
Credit Suisse estimates that Chinese buyers account for 18 per cent of new property purchases in
Sydney, and 14 per cent of the supply in Melbourne. This does not include second-hand homes.
"A generation of Australians are being priced out of the property market. Many face a lifetime of
renting," analysts Hasan Tevfik and Damien Boey said.
There are currently 1.1 million millionaires in China who could easily afford properties in Australia's
two most expensive markets, Credit Suisse said.
Wealthy Chinese buyers have purchased $24 billion of Australian housing in the past seven years,
and over the next seven years an additional $44 billion will be spent on residential property, Credit
Suisse estimates.
There was $17.2 billion worth of approved residential property investment coming in from overseas
in the year June 30 2013, down from $19.7 billion in the previous period, according to the FIRB.
Foreigners must seek approval to buy established real estate and rural land, but can buy up to 50
per cent of a new building "off the plan".
Of the 2013 total, $5.6 billion was approved for residential properties in New South Wales.
That number may seem large, but across the whole property market the effect dissipates.
There is, on average, a 6 per cent turnover annually in Australia's property, according to the
Reserve Bank of Australia.
The total value of Australia's property market is $5.02 trillion, according to the ABS, so yearly
turnover in the housing sector is roughly $360 billion.
Chinese buyers are spending $5.4 billion a year on Australian properties, Credit Suisse said, with
the split relatively even between new settlers and others, which include investors, developers and
temporary residents.
The rise in domestic house prices, while marginally impacted by Chinese investors, is a result of low
interest rates, increased affordability and domestic investors, not foreigners, said Deutsche Bank
economist Phil Odonaghoe.

Page85of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."The point that gets lost in this debate very often is that nobody focuses on the rules, which are
pretty clear for a foreign investor. The principle that guides the FIRB policy is that foreign investment
should increase the housing stock," Mr Odonaghoe said.
Chinese investors may be pushing new house prices higher, which is locking out local first-home
buyers, but they are not the reason for rises in second-hand home prices, he said.

That doesn't bode well for first-home buyers who struggle to break into the market. First-home buyer
activity, as a proportion of total borrowers, is near record lows at 12.7 per cent of total loan
approvals, states the ABS.

First-time buyers in February comprised less than 10 per cent of all mortgages processed by broker
AFG for the first time since June 2010.

The numbers are most dramatic in NSW where first-home buyers were responsible for just 3.4 per
cent of AFG mortgages, down from an already very low 4.5 per cent in February last year. Victoria's
first-home buyers took out 10.3 per cent of mortgages, down from 17.1 per cent last February.
Over the past 12 months, property prices in capital cities have jumped 10 per cent, according to the
RPData-Rismark home index.

BusinessDay — Page 25

NS

RE

PUB
AN

e1121 : Home Sales/Housing Affordability | ereal : Real Estate Markets | e11 : Economic
Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News
austr : Australia | china : China | nswals : New South Wales | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific |
asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020140305ea3600035

Page86of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.