Southern Inlands Brekkie Blog | Friday, November 21, 2014

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

news
Southern Inlands Brekkie Blog | Friday, November 21, 2014

1,771 words
20 November 2014
Goulburn Post
FGOULP
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

Good morning, and welcome to the Southern Inlands Brekkie Blog. Each morning we'll keep you up to
date with what's happening around the region, including the latest local news as it breaks and the best
of what's happening around Australia and around the world.

Keep refreshing the page to see updates.

8.50am YOUNG: A man who cheated unsuspecting businesses and individuals around the country out
of thousands of dollars to fuel his gambling addiction has been jailed. Michael James Walsh, 39, of
Young was sentenced to six months" prison for 16 counts of fraud at Young Local Court on Tuesday.

8.40am GOULBURN: The voice of a man in a small room off Sloane Street will soon be heard around
Australia. Goulburn Community Radio breakfast host, Jeff Dunn, will on Saturday become the first
broadcaster at the Goulburn not-for-profit station to go air nationwide. Listeners from all parts of the
continent will be able to catch the breakfast program courtesy of the station's new Tieline machine "
purchased thanks to a grant from the Community Broadcast Association. The Tieline machine will
feed select Goulburn Community Radio programs to Sydney transmitters, where they'll in-turn
broadcast nationally.

8.30am QUEANBEYAN: Queanbeyan City Council has released a short statement informing the
community that Council's general manager Gary Chapman has officially resigned from his position. Mr
Chapman's resignation will be effective from today, Friday, 21 November 2014.

8.20am YOUNG: Police investigations have revealed two children, aged nine and 11 years, were
behind the grass fire in Pine View Circuit on Tuesday. Emergency services were called to the fire that
ignited on a vacant block within metres of homes at about 4.30pm. Two crews from Young Fire and
Rescue NSW, as well as three Rural Fire Service tankers from Young and Boara, arrived on the
scene.

8.10am GOULBURN: A boutique musical festival planned for Goulburn is to be postponed following
questions of fire safety, organisers say. This, on top of the required Council Development Application
processes, saw the Marmalade Skies organising party fall too short of time. Construction was due to
start on the site, 20km south of Goulburn, next week. The decision was made on Wednesday
afternoon following a site inspection.

8.00am BRAIDWOOD: Since Unity Mining announced last week that it proposes to use Cyanide to
process gold on site at the Dargues Gold Mine at Majors Creek, concern in the community has been
mounting. The public meeting in Majors Creek last Tuesday night was attended by about 40 people,
however many commented that it would have been overflowing if the actual proposal had been known
earlier.

7.50am CANBERRA: Mismanagement and long-running cultural problems inside the Canberra
Hospital maternity unit have put the health of patients at serious risk, an official report has warned, as
adverse medical outcomes, inadequate supervision and critically low morale remain. Extracts of an
accreditation report from The Royal Australian and New Zealand College of Obstetricians and
Gynaecologists, obtained by The Canberra Times, show patient and doctor health has been
compromised as staff levels tank, surgical and ultrasound training is limited and unresolved personal
conflicts fester.

Page94of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.7.40am YOUNG: Three people from Young have been charged over the robbing and bashing of an
elderly man for his pension in Sydney on Wednesday morning. A 29-year-old man - the last suspect
wanted by police - was arrested Thursday morning over the attack after allegedly leading police on a
pursuit. The man was taken to Campbelltown Police Station, where he was charged with robbery in
company cause grievous bodily harm and police pursuit (Skye's Law).

7.30am YASS: Local newsagents and lottery outlets across NSW and the ACT could be under threat
with Tatts Lotto's plans to expand the sale of lottery tickets into supermarkets. Agencies will also be
forced to undertake new signage, costing between $20-25,000. In 2010, the Labor government
privatised the NSW and ACT Lotteries and prevented supermarkets and other big retailers from selling
tickets and scratchies until March 31, 2015.

7.20am QUEANBEYAN: Together their businesses have been on Queanbeyan's main street for at
least 150 years but the owners of Kevin O'Connor's Menswear and Today's Jewellers will shut up shop
by the end of the year. Business owners Harry Statos and Bill Kover were prompted to make the
decision as the owners of their respective buildings intend to put the adjoining premises on the market.

7.10am COOTAMUNDRA: Progress is being made on a proposed new abattoir in Cootamundra with a
location scouted and talks ongoing with potential investors. The idea of a new meatworks was born
when the changeover from GM Scott to Manildra Meat Company spelled the end of service kills in
Cootamundra.

7.00am GOULBURN: A 43-year-old Goulburn woman was sentenced to 18 months" prison on
Wednesday for 12 counts of knowingly supplying methylamphetamine and one count of drug
possession. Prior to Wednesday, she only had two drink drive offences to her name. She is one of
more than 19 people charged under Strikeforce Coull, targeting the drug commonly known as "ice."
Her solicitor told Goulburn Local Court it was a "peculiar situation."

Need a national news snapshot first thing - well, we have you covered.

" To check out the front pages of Fairfax publications for today, click here

"The NSW Rural Fire Service has declared a total fire ban today in the following areas: Greater Hunter,
Greater Sydney Region, Central Ranges, North Western and Upper Central West Plains. This includes
Newcastle, Cessnock, Blue Mountains, Penrith, Sydney, Bathurst, Moree and Bogan.

" Matthew James McAlister says he can't recall brutally attacking a bus driver who was simply doing
his job, but judging by the screams of the passengers on board it will live with them forever.

" Dozens of people gathered at Hargreaves Mall outside the office of Senator Bridget McKenzie to
protest cuts to the ABC. Community and Public Sector Union deputy secretary Rupert Evans told the
crowd they had a responsibility to stand up and defend cuts to the organisation.
" Intruders deliberately lit insulation batts on fire at a building site in the Nowra CBD on Thursday night.

"Where's the most expensive unleaded petrol in NSW? Tumut, the Daily Advertiser, says. Anomolies
between standard grocery costs and disparate petrol prices across the state put forward by
supermarket monopolies have left the Tumut community frustrated and wanting answers.

"A former St Patrick's College teacher says she and her partner are living a nightmare eight months
after they were accused of planning to blow up a Middle Eastern consulate where they worked.

" Two farmers are calling for community support to help build an on-farm butchery. Mount Beckworth
Free Range farm owners Chris Peel and Diane Snell are hoping to raise more than $36,000 through a
crowdfunding website to buy a mobile van and establish a store and cool-room on their property.

" Police respond to an -average of 285 domestic -violence -incidents each month across the Central
Hunter local area command. Officers at Maitland police -station have crunched the -numbers for the
area, which includes Cessnock and Kurri Kurri, to highlight the need for action on White Ribbon Day.

"Eyre Peninsula barley growers are among those set to benefit from the newly announced free trade
agreement between Australia and China.

" Two women in their late 30s escaped with minor injuries after a fiery car crash on the Mitchell
Highway around 10 kilometres west of Bathurst on Thursday.

NATIONAL: Clive Palmer has walked out of an interview. Again. The Palmer United Party leader
removed his microphone and terminated the interview with Emma Alberici on Thursday after the
Lateline host's persistent questioning over his Chinese business deals.

Page95of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.KANGAROO ISLAND: Scientists said a rare pygmy right whale found stranded on a Kangaroo Island
beach is likely to have been weaning. Locals made a number of attempts to guide the whale back out
to sea, but it continued to return to shore.

KATHERINE: The issue of problem drinking in Katherine is never far from the public discourse and
one community member is fed up with inaction. Toni Tapp-Coutts said it was time for the Katherine
Town Council, the Northern Territory government and the community to be as proactive about alcohol
management as they were about the cost of petrol.

BALLARAT: A new cheerleading team out-danced every club in its division to claim victory at a
national championship at the weekend.

MARGARET RIVER: Superstar chef Heston Blumenthal had such a blast at Margaret River Gourmet
Escape last year, he will be back for the three-day event which starts today.

BURNIE: Live on television, Somerset's Kim Eade chased her husband down the road barefoot with
phone in hand. The panel of the nation's most popular breakfast show, Sunrise, cackled as Mrs Eade
screamed for her husband frantically as he drove off.

MOUNT ISA: North-west Queensland residents are twice as likely to die from an avoidable death
compared with the Queensland average.

WOLLONGONG: The annual Stockland KidzWish Christmas Party put smiles on the faces of 4300
special needs children and carers who packed WIN Entertainment Centre on Thursday.

LONDON: Australian bedrooms, backyards and even babies' cots are among the images on a Russian
site showing live feeds from thousands of homes and businesses around the world.

US: Celebrated movie director Mike Nichols has died. He emerged in the late 1950s as half of a
groundbreaking satirical comedy team and found his true calling in the next decade as director of the
landmark films Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? and The Graduate. He was 83.

BANGKOK: Screenings of the latest Hunger Games film have been cancelled in the Thai capital after
opponents of the country's military rule adopted a three-finger salute from the movie as a sign of
defiance.
BEIJING: Chinese authorities have detained respected Korean-American Christian aid worker Peter
Hahn on suspicion of embezzlement, amid a wider crackdown on aid groups along the North Korean
border.

INTERNATIONAL: Blistering heat across Australia but frigid conditions across much of the continental
US " what's going on?

A Xavier High School student's planned adventure could be a forerunner for a new schoolies program.
Mason Collins, 18, is substituting the beach for the outback for his end-of-year celebrations after being
inspired by a trip to Yuendumu through the school's immersion program last year. Read more

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gcrim : Crime/Courts | gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FGOULP0020141121eabk00004

Page96of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.