End of Australia's mining boom threatens Pilbara Cities plan

HD
BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY

LP

TD

End of Australia's mining boom threatens Pilbara Cities plan

By Jamie Smyth in Port Hedland, Australia
969 words
20 August 2014
22:44
Financial Times (FT.Com)
FTCOM
English
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and
redistribute by email or post to the web.

In a dusty industrial estate next to the world's biggest iron ore port in Western Australia's remote Pilbara
region, business has never been so bad.

"The rents got so high in the town that when the boom ended, businesses began to die off everywhere,"
says Jo Woodward, owner of Jems, a ramshackle building with an eviction notice stuck to its padlocked
gate that was recently Port Hedland's only legal brothel. "Nothing is selling here now."

The demise of Jems, and of many other Pilbara businesses that have closed their doors following the
end of the country's mining investment boom , suggests Australia may struggle to realise one of its
flagship projects.

Port Hedland and neighbouring Karratha grew rapidly during a decade-long boom as workers flooded
into the Pilbara to construct the iron ore mines, railways and ports needed to feed Chinese demand for
steel. The fast-growing towns were chosen as a test bed for a key state initiative: creating two
sustainable cities of 50,000 people by 2035 in a remote region prone to resource booms and busts.
Western Australia's "Pilbara Cities" plan was launched in 2010 at the height of a boom driven by iron
ore and the discovery of natural gas off the coast. Several billion dollars have been spent on new
hospitals, roads and housing to transform the dusty mining towns of about 15,000 people each into
living spaces that attract families.
But fears are growing that the drop in mining construction and a recent slump in iron ore prices
threaten the future of the flagship project.

A lack of alternative sources of employment is likely to continue - businesses find it difficult to locate to
the remote cities given the high cost of electricity, transport and water. And although such infrastructure
exists, it has been built by the three major mining companies active in the region - BHP Billiton, Rio
Tinto and Fortescue Metals - and they guard it jealously.

BHP and Rio own and control thousands of kilometres of railway track across the Pilbara and have
successfully defeated legal attempts by other miners to open access to this infrastructure. All three
miners have built their own generators to power their mine operations.

"History shows this classic mine and boom phase is either followed by an evolution into multiple but
related industries, or a decline into ghost towns and tumbleweed," says Jemma Green, a researcher at
Curtin University.

A report co-authored by Ms Green, Pilbara 2050, notes there are at least 87 ghost towns across
Western Australia, most of them former mining towns. It warns that the region must diversify beyond
iron ore and gas, and embrace sectors such as tourism and agriculture, to ensure Port Hedland and
Karratha do not suffer a similar fate.

Attracting workers to put down roots in the Pilbara has never been easy. It is remote - a two-hour flight
from Perth - and has a harsh climate, with summer temperatures topping 40C. Poor living conditions and

Page183of343©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.the high cost of accommodation has created a fly-in, flyout (Fifo) culture, whereby workers live on
temporary campsites and trailer parks on the edge of town.
"People today point the finger at the mining companies and say you have all these people living in
camps but when you go back five or six years there was no alternative," says Morag Lowe, owner of the
First National estate agent.

She says decades of political neglect, a failure to invest in infrastructure and an initial reluctance by local
government to free up development land has almost squandered the boom.

The tabular content relating to this article is not available to view. Apologies in advance for the
inconvenience caused.

<>Public investment under Pilbara Cities and private investment by the big miners is beginning to have
an impact. A sports stadium has been built, an art gallery has opened and luxury houses have been
constructed in Port Hedland to attract doctors to relocate to the town.

"We are focusing our efforts on the type of 'city-building' amenities and services such as parks and
cafés, which will ensure families want to come and live here," says Kelly Howlett, mayor of Port
Hedland.

"A population of 50,000 is a realistic target. About 1,000 people make Western Australia their home
every week and they can't all go to Perth," she says.

But locals warn a cooling economy is putting this at risk. Rents have halved in Karratha, record numbers
of properties are listed for sale in both towns and some new housing developments lie empty.

Alan Richardson, who recently closed the Pilbara Echo newspaper he founded in Karratha, says things
are difficult.
"If you talk to any small business that's not mining-related you'll see how hard it is," he says.
Ms Green says creating a publicly controlled energy grid and electrifying the miners' railways would
dramatically reduce operating costs for all businesses, including the miners.

"At the moment if any business wants to set up in the Pilbara they need to build their own generator,
which is hugely costly. But if the existing infrastructure built by the miners could be pooled and shared it
would be a game-changer for the region," she says.
But the big miners, which make tens of billions of dollars in profit every year from the region's iron ore
reserves, say such moves could disrupt their businesses.

As the economy sours, some question whether there will be enough political commitment to deliver the
Pilbara Cities vision.

"This part of Western Australia, really, economically it may be very important but politically it is not so,"
says Ms Lowe. "Over the decades it has been totally ignored."

IN

NS

RE
IPD
IPC
PUB
AN

i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | imet : Mining/Quarrying | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources
reqrmm : Suggested Reading Metals/Mining | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr :
Suggested Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Company News
CN
The Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)
Document FTCOM00020140820ea8k001xi

Page184of343©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.