Home away from home

HD Home away from home
WC 4,611 words
PD 26 June 2014
SN The Times Higher Education Supplement
SC TTHDS
ED Issue: 2158
LA English
CY © 2014, TSL Education Limited
LP

TD

Is the grass greener on the other side of the world? Six individuals share the ups and the downs they have
experienced in university life abroad

One of the delights of an academic career is the opportunity to spend significant stretches of time – or
entire careers – in desirable foreign climes. But academic exile also brings obvious challenges relating to
language, culture and distance from family, friends and established academic networks.

We asked six academics who have switched countries to describe their experiences. Their stories confirm
that life at universities abroad can be trying. UK academics in Italy and Finland complain of being treated
as second-class citizens in systems apparently set up to favour home-grown talent. Meanwhile, an
associate professor who came to the UK from the US is haunted by doubts over whether the literal Utopia
of his existence between two “equally admirable and deficient” cultures can be justified given his expanding
carbon footprint as a result of all the air miles involved.
But there are also many positives. While Hong Kong may no longer be the Mecca for indolent Anglo
gin-swillers, its cultural fascinations still provide a strong allure for one contributor. For a new
vice-chancellor, the challenge of keeping up with the pace of political and policy change in Australia is
proving a compelling distraction from the stunning beaches. And, for an early career academic, New
Zealand has turned out to be far from the remote academic graveyard her former colleagues had conjured
up.

It seems that whatever voyage you take, it is likely to be one of discovery.
Hong Kong

Fragrant with possibilities
Arriving from London in early 1997 at the University of Hong Kong, I found myself swimming against a tide
of deserting expats. It was the time of the handover: diehard colonials were digging in, and Brit-bashing
was in full swing. The acronym “Filth” re-emerged: “Failed in London, try Hong Kong”. The signs didn’t
bode well.
But as a Chinese flag was unfurled on the colonial buildings of the university the day after the reunification
with the motherland, I reflected that this was still the right place for a lecturer in post-colonial studies and
postmodernism. Postmodern heterotopias are everywhere: shopping malls and themed bars pretending to
be somewhere – or some time – else; soaring Western-style office blocks cheek by jowl with local stores
crammed with dried fish, noodles and traditional Chinese medicines; and street markets offering antiques,
fake designer watches, sex toys, fancy dress, birds and snakes – just like in the film Bladerunner.

The university, like the city, has lacked direction and vision since 1997. Inevitable convergence with Beijing
shapes all futures. Local resentment towards mainlanders can flare up against tourists (“locusts”, whose
children pee on the subway trains) and parallel traders (who buy up all the foreign baby-milk formula to
take back and sell to Chinese worried about possible contamination in domestic products). Ideological
differences also exist (mainlanders still understand ideology). And there will be plenty of cause for future
tension if the University of Hong Kong loses its international standing by focusing too much on Chinese
studies and increasing its quota of mainland students.

Page89of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The first post-handover vice-chancellor was on a mission to rid the senior common room of gin-soaked
Brits and to encourage everyone into the office early by reducing the number of parking places. He showed
his colours and met his nemesis when trying to ban a social sciences survey on the government’s
popularity. During his replacement’s watch, student protesters were locked in a stairwell to keep them away
from visiting Beijing VIPs. The new vice-chancellor, Peter Mathieson, is from the UK. One Hong Kong
professor told the press that he was “ignorant and incapable”, but he seems very capable of rebuffing such
criticism.

The post-handover administration’s ineptitude in all things bar squeezing money out of thin air and land
sales is remarkable. Meanwhile, the university bumbles along, its outdated committee structures
concealing the fact that only a few individuals wield genuine power – just like in colonial times. But if you
don’t rock the boat, Hong Kong is a great place to work and I have enjoyed my stay. The facilities at the
university are excellent, and the teaching load is not onerous: I have written five books and 30 articles and
chapters while here and I spend most summers in the British Library.

English is the medium of instruction in the university, but many students lack sufficient grasp of it for
serious tertiary education. Students and staff use Cantonese or Putonghua outside the classroom – and
often inside it. But the top 20 per cent of my students in English literature would do well in UK or US
universities and most are a delight to teach.

Academic salaries are high (from 50 to 100 per cent higher than those in the UK) and income tax is low (15
per cent). Western food is expensive, but clothes and transport are cheap. Entertainment is patchy –
international festivals create feast and famine. Housing is the major concern in this landlord economy. A
spacious flat in the most sought-after areas might cost all of a professor’s salary, but there are cheaper
alternatives. I have a four-bedroom house with a Balinese garden on Lamma Island. This is a friendly, very
cosmopolitan place with cafes where people write books and discuss philosophy. It’s also on the
mainlanders’ tourist trail, so Westerners are objects of the tourist gaze for a change.

In the New Territories and Outlying Islands, country parks are extensive, with hiking trails and empty
beaches. These become crowded on public holidays, especially “grave cleaning” days, when burnt
offerings at the ancestors’ remains can cause hill fires. If you don’t suffer from biophobia (many here do),
there is a surprising range of wildlife, including kites, huge butterflies, flowering trees, dog-eating pythons,
cobras and wild boar. All this is a welcome refuge from worsening pollution in a city that cries out for a
traffic-free zone, bike rentals and electric trams (already here, albeit ignored and obstructed for decades)
but gets only more six-lane highways. This is a property- and construction-based economy: with no profit in
reducing pollution, the government just kicks the can into the long grass (so full of cans the grass doesn’t
grow any more).

This year I am being forced to retire at 60 – a hangover from colonial days when retirees with a fat pension
booked their passage home on a Cunard liner. The age limit was kept, but the passage and the pension
scrapped. With no universal state pension, many old people here live in poverty. Alongside the pollution,
this is wealthy Hong Kong’s other disgrace. It is a great place to work, but best to get out before you get
old.
Paul Smethurst is associate professor in the School of English at the University of Hong Kong. His books
include The Postmodern Chronotope (2000) and Travel Writing and the Natural World (2013).

New Zealand

Oceanic openness and intellectual vibrancy

When I told colleagues at the University of Edinburgh in 2011 that I had a job in Auckland, the most
common response was one of surprise tinged with misgiving. Did New Zealand even have universities,
some asked. How would I cope with living in “the back of beyond”? One colleague voiced concern that I
was compromising my scholarly career by moving to a location that was so far removed geographically
from the “central” hub of academia that is Europe and North America.

I had never even visited New Zealand before, so moving here from Edinburgh – where I had spent three
years as an adjunct teaching fellow – was also a step into the unknown for me personally. It was made a
little easier by the fact that my partner is a Kiwi who was forever extolling her homeland, so I was keen to
see if everything she’d told me about the place was true.

For all my former colleagues’ well-meaning concerns, life can be incredibly enriching for academics
working in this Antipodean corner of the world. Professionally, I have been delighted to discover that I am
located in the midst of a vibrant research arena built up and sustained by academics within Oceania, where
scholarship (at least in my field of religious studies and cultural studies) is constantly being reimagined and
pushed to new limits. Perhaps this is precisely because we are far removed from the rather traditional
northern hemisphere academic headquarters: the apron strings being, by necessity, long and loose, we

Page90of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.enjoy a little more freedom to be creative in our scholarly endeavours. That said, there are still many
opportunities for collaboration with international peers. I attend overseas conferences and am currently
working on several research projects with academics in Australia and the UK. All in all, I’ve found that my
geographical location is by no means a hindrance to my scholarly life or career.

One thing I have noticed about higher education in New Zealand is that there is a much more informal
environment in universities, both in and out of the classroom. In my faculty at least, students typically
address lecturers by their first name from the get-go, regardless of rank. Some of my Kiwi colleagues and
students thought it was hilarious when I told them that, at my alma mater, first-name terms between student
and lecturer were strictly by (academic) invitation only.

This levelling informality also shapes the classroom experience. Students here are more eager to engage
with the lecturer, to ask questions and to offer their own opinions, rather than treating the lecturer’s every
word as sacrosanct. Consequently, my teaching style has flourished, evolving from carefully prepared
monologues to more open-ended (and intellectually challenging) dialogues, in which the learning
experience often goes both ways.

So, professionally, my time in New Zealand has been very rewarding – despite the fact that, like their UK
counterparts, New Zealand universities are suffering serious financial cuts at the hands of an
unsympathetic government.

Personally, it’s also been rather good. Living in Auckland – the city of sails – I have three beautiful beaches
(as well as numerous dormant volcanoes) within walking distance of my house. I can watch the sun rise
over the Pacific Ocean on my ferry ride to work every morning. The winters are mild, the summers are
balmy, and, while the cost of living can sometimes take your breath away, I’d like to think I’ll be living and
working here for some time to come.

Caroline Blyth is a lecturer in the Hebrew Bible and Hebrew language at the University of Auckland.

Finland

Warm welcome, then cold shoulder

I did my PhD in urban geography at the University of Strathclyde and had been lecturing there for more
than three years before I accepted my postdoctoral position at the University of Helsinki in December 2007.
I had never been to Finland before, but the country, its people and their culture had long intrigued me.
Once I had arrived in the April of the following year, I made a concerted effort to learn about Finland’s
history and to appreciate its culture and etiquette.

I also appreciated the space that I was given: a big corner desk in a shared office with three other
researchers. I had time to work on my publications, and I received helpful tips about where to apply for
funding when my two-year contract ran out. I also offered quality teaching in English, mainly to Erasmus
exchange students – an experience that I enjoyed. The feedback on my teaching was generally positive,
and my line manager told me that I was good for the university’s ambition to “become more international”. I
also got positive vibes from colleagues. I felt valued.

At the start of 2009, I began making plans to become a permanent fixture in Finnish higher education. No
positions were available in my faculty, but I won a year’s funding from a Finnish foundation to keep me
going – albeit on a lower salary. However, subsequent applications to Finnish funding bodies were
unsuccessful, as were my attempts to secure a permanent academic contract. I could get only part-time
teaching jobs in a variety of universities in the south of the country.

The most frustrating aspect of applying for a position in Finnish higher education is the silence. When you
apply for academic posts in UK universities, you can expect to be informed about the outcome even if you
are unsuccessful. Finnish universities do not work in this way. It feels as though you are hassling human
resources staff when you ask them for feedback. I suggested to a Finnish colleague that this silence might
be viewed as discourteous, only to be told that Finns would rather not be seen to be rejecting people.

Still without a proper contract, my Finnish partner and I thought about leaving Finland last year. But then, in
December, a permanent lectureship was finally advertised in my own department, the details for which
included the words “open” and “international”, and I was encouraged to apply by my line manager. But
again, I heard nothing for several months until one of the other candidates, based in France, sent me a
copy of the official letter which stated that a Finn who had only just completed their PhD had been
appointed to the post. The letter had not been translated from Finnish despite the supposedly international
nature of the search. The head of department told me that no ranking of candidates existed and explained
that it was “a strategic recruitment, where we hired a qualified person with strong existing ties to the
research group”.

Page91of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.There has been some progress in opening up the Finnish higher education system to more foreign
academic talent, but it has been slow. To get a sense of the wider view, I emailed all universities in Finland
and asked them for statistics about their foreign staff. The University of Turku reflects the national picture.
Of its 500 academic staff currently holding permanent contracts, only 21 are not Finnish citizens and just
eight have a mother tongue other than Finnish, Swedish or Sami. I have lost count of the number of brilliant
foreign academics who have upped and left this supposedly fair and open Nordic country because they are
made to feel belittled and marginalised by a higher education system apparently designed to guarantee
that Finns progress the fastest.

Finnish colleagues have given me four different explanations for this. One is foreigners’ difficulties with
learning Finnish – from which I am certainly not immune. Another is that Finns trust other Finns and thus
prefer to employ them. A third is that some Finns believe that they are more entitled to permanent
academic contracts because it is “their” country. But the most surprising reason is that Finnish academics
feel insecure and don’t wish to be challenged and undermined by foreign scholars.

The most important lesson I have learned was succinctly put by Michael Ignatieff in his recent memoir Fire
and Ashes: “When you live in other people’s countries, you eventually bang up against glass doors and
cordoned-off areas reserved for insiders. You realise you understand only what the insiders say, not what
they really mean.”

Gareth Rice has just finished his last part-time lecturing contract with the University of Helsinki.

United Kingdom

Midatlantic Utopia

Would you happen to have a spare rubber?” That proposition, coming at eight in the morning from a
colleague in my office doorway, took a moment to process. Slowly, what she meant dawned upon me: an
eraser. As our eyes registered what the other had been thinking, we managed to extract ourselves from the
situation, awkwardly and bemusedly.

Perhaps you dream that if you embark on a career abroad you will help to foster international
understanding. Let me offer a prophylactic: confusion is the default state. To live and work abroad will be
disorienting for you and your hosts alike. If you are not fine with confusion, it really would be best to stay
home, for whole departmental meetings will take place in a foreign argot: “V-C” for president, “honours” for
majors, “subsid” for…well, that last item is virtually untranslatable, pointing to the entirely different structure
of higher education beneath the vocabulary.

Winston Churchill described the Americans and the British as one people separated by a common
language. The reality runs deeper. I arrived at the University of Nottingham four and a half years ago, in my
early forties, to find myself the only American instructor in Europe’s largest programme in American studies.
My spouse, a librarian, has found employment. Our children attend an excellent school. We bought a
red-brick house in a charming village and enjoy walking for miles in the English countryside. Yet despite it
all, scarcely a day goes by without my wondering what I am doing in this country – sometimes really
wondering.

Students should meet at least one American in the three years of an American studies course. Perhaps
that is reason enough for me to be here. What, however, if I am no longer the same American I was before
arriving? It would stretch credulity to claim that I have become an American Briton, but consider this. While
on sabbatical this academic year, I had reason to fly to America four times, twice to speak at a conference,
twice for archival research. Each time the wheels touched ground in the US I felt I was coming home. What
was striking was that I felt precisely the same way on the return journeys.

Some years I have abstained from transatlantic flights in light of the overwhelming evidence that
human-produced carbon dioxide emissions are generating global overheating. The same academic
community that has revealed that reality, however, places a high value on international intellectual
exchange. With air travel both censured and requisite, qualms of conscience can result for one residing in a
country remote from one’s primary research and key professional meetings, not to mention family. So I
resist superfluous tourist flights to dip toes in the Caribbean Sea or stand on Icelandic glaciers. Even trips
with good justification I try to minimise by combining them or forgoing them. For me, the days when flying
produced a frisson of freedom are forever over.

British and American culture, despite their commingling, differ in infinite minute ways. To emerge among
my boisterous, boastful, happy American compatriots is surreal after experiencing British restraint, propriety
and indirection. But to rebound from American informality and openness back into British rigidities and
pomposities of rank is equally disconcerting, even if ample compensation can be had at the bakery, the
second-hand bookshop or the pub.

Page92of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Surely this is Utopia, this life between two cultures equally admirable and deficient, because the literal
meaning of “Utopia” is “no place”. Should we, however, trade the world for Utopia?

That, with an increasing sense of exigency, is what I am left to wonder.

Christopher Phelps is associate professor and senior lecturer in American studies at the University of
Nottingham.

Australia

At the deep end, but nature compensates

Like 19th-century pioneers, the Lloyd family relocated from the Republic of Ireland to Australia. Since that
move early last year, however, we have had a vastly more positive experience than did those desperate
souls transported here centuries ago.

When we arrived, there was a 40°C temperature difference between Adelaide and Dublin, where I had
most recently been bursar and director of strategic innovation at Trinity College. But you acclimatise pretty
quickly, and the great weather and beaches of South Australia go very well together.

Not that I had much time for splashing in the surf. I was busy climbing a steep learning curve of acronyms
(the formation of which is an Australian national pastime) and getting used to the considerably faster pace
of decision-making required in Australian university management – especially when faced with no fewer
than five different federal ministers for education in 18 months, and with state and federal elections to boot.
Add to that the new government’s review of the demand-driven university system and May’s radical budget
– which abolished caps on tuition fees, cut government contributions to teaching and opened up public
funding to private providers and sub-degree places – and you have a pace of reform that is much faster
than anything I experienced in Ireland. But I find it all extremely energising and far more liberating than
challenging.

I added to my workload by launching a big review of university strategy within a few months of joining.
Called Unijam, it involved 38 hours of online, global conversation with all sorts of people, from students to
celebrities, politicians and alumni, and it resulted in the creation of a new, crowdsourced action plan that
had buy-in from across the institution.

The recent abolition of price caps and the probable increase in student borrowing that this will usher in will
only intensify the more businesslike focus of the economics of higher education in Australia compared with
Ireland. From an operational perspective, it will demand greater differentiation among universities and
management teams that are prepared to act nimbly to meet student needs and to ensure that their
offerings are linked to tangible outcomes. Elements beyond the classroom will move centre stage, such as
student experience, infrastructure, internships, employability and international placements and
partnerships. I am going to be busy.

Internationalisation is another big area that I have had to get my head around. Whereas true
internationalisation remains a goal rather than a reality for many Irish universities, higher education is
Australia’s fourth largest export industry overall and the single largest service-based export. It is big
business, and is recognised and organised as such. Barely had I touched down in Adelaide before I was
flying off to China, putting in place articulation agreements and planning offshore campus collaborations. I
have now been through Asia several times. The next trip will be in July to launch our Singapore presence.

Adelaide is very much a university city, with three domestic institutions and a number of international
providers serving a metropolitan population of about 1.3 million people. Higher education is a key part of
the economic fabric of the state of South Australia, and that plays out in terms of meaningful and frequent
engagement with politicians. For instance, I was recently appointed to the state’s Economic Development
Board, an independent advisory body that will take on increased importance amid the demise of the local
automotive industry.
I’m still considered to be the “new” vice-chancellor, but only the accent remains to testify to this. I do miss a
specific Irish blend of tea, but I am compensating as best I can. The kids are developing Aussie accents
and are playing outdoors every day and having such fun. Personally, I am in absolute awe of the birds in
our neighbourhood – galahs, lorikeets, cockatoos – all flying about the place in huge numbers. The
Australian magpie makes the most wonderfully exotic noise to my northern hemisphere ears and makes
me happy every single day.

David Lloyd is vice-chancellor and president of the University of South Australia.

Italy

Page93of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Dolce vita? Rather sour, actually

I have taught at the University of Verona for 30 years. The only advice I can offer Italian students seeking a
career in academia is to leave Italy. Similarly, I would advise foreign teachers and academics seeking a
share of la dolce vita to think carefully before coming.

It is impossible to have a meaningful conversation about Italian universities without mentioning
raccomandazioni: the systematic rigging of appointment processes to favour candidates with family friends
and connections over those competing on merit alone.

Writing in Italian magazine Panorama in 1995, a former president of the Italian Senate, Marcello Pera,
described it as scandalous. “The Italian university no longer exists,” he wrote. “It is dead. It has been killed
by a political class that is irresponsible, guilty, short-sighted, homicidal and suicidal…To ask this political
class to provide a remedy for the cemetery it has left behind is like asking the capo dei capi [godfather] to
solve the Mafia problem.”

The result is so-called education run by and for the benefit of so-called educators. The net losers are the
talented Italian students who are obliged to flee the country to study and work; the less fortunate ones stay
despite having no realistic possibility of acquiring from an Italian university the skills that would render them
employable.

My first job in Italy was managing a private language school in Padua in 1982. My Italian wife was working
in Brescia, 150km away. Our daughter was born in 1983. My father came for her birth and was diagnosed
in the Padua hospital with terminal cancer. He accepted his fate, and it was agreed by the doctors that he
should receive palliative treatment only. As a greenhorn in Italy, I could not understand why his morphine
did not arrive until a young Italian doctor asked if I was “tipping” the head nurse.

The University of Verona employed me in 1984 as a lettore (literally, a reader): a self-employed
professional denied (illegally) social security and pension contributions. The contract was for one year,
renewable for a maximum of five more. I taught English language and literature and was a full member of
the examining boards, setting and grading both written and oral exams and working on the supervision of
theses.

After working for only three weeks, I was advised to stop because the money to pay our wages had not
arrived from the ministry in Rome. A strike resolved the problem. Meanwhile, my wife got a transfer to work
nearer Verona, at the cost of a month’s salary in the form of a cash donation to a trade union official.

My experience is not unique. All non-Italian academics are treated this way. There have been six
judgments in favour of lettori in the European Court of Justice as well as thousands of lawsuits in Italy: a
veritable blizzard of Bleak Houses. Italy did change its legislation in 1995, requiring us to be given
open-ended contracts in line with Italian teaching staff. But, unlike Italians, we had to accept downgraded
pay and conditions as laboratory technicians. The experience led us, in 1997, to set up the Association of
Foreign Lecturers in Italy to press our case for fair treatment.

Along with 13 other Verona lettori, I refused to sign the new contract. As a result, we were ordered out of
the faculty offices and our names were deleted from the internal phone books and from the doors of our
office. Then we were officially sacked – only being reinstated four years later by the Italian Supreme Court.
We are currently working, without a contract, under the protection of that judgment.

My daughter left Italy in 2000, bitterly complaining that, with her foreign surname, fair treatment in the
Italian higher education system, even as a student, would be impossible. She did her degree, instead, at
Edinburgh Napier University.

Her bitterness is diminishing and she now visits Italy more frequently – seduced, as we all are, by its
beauty, splendid art treasures, architecture, weather, seaside, mountains, pizzas and ice cream. But
returning to her birthplace to work is still not an option she would consider.

David Petrie is a lettore at the University of Verona and chair of Allsi, the Association of Foreign Lecturers
in Italy.

CO unnott : University of Nottingham
NS gedu : Education | gcat : Political/General News | guni : University/College
RE hkong : Hong Kong | china : China | adelai : Adelaide | auckl : Auckland | saustr : South Australia | uk :
United Kingdom | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing

Page94of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | nz : New Zealand |
weurz : Western Europe
PUB TSL Education Limited
AN Document TTHDS00020140703ea6q00010

Page95of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.