Beijing Will Call The Shots In Resource Sector Battle Royal

HD Beijing Will Call The Shots In Resource Sector Battle Royal
WC 3,210 words
PD 22 December 2014
SN FN Arena
SC FNAREN
LA English
CY Copyright 2014. FN Arena Ltd.
LP

TD

Michael Komesaroff is principal of Urandaline Investments (www.urandaline.com.au), a consultancy
specializing in China's capital-intensive industries In October the world's fourth largest mining company,
Glencore, launched an audacious merger bid for the world's second biggest miner, Rio Tinto. The approach
was rebuffed, and United Kingdom takeover rules?both companies have London listings?forbid Glencore
from making any further overtures for the following six months. Yet few in the mining business believe that
is the end of the story. Glencore's chief executive officer Ivan Glasenberg has long had his eye on Rio Tinto.
Come April, industry analysts expect him to be back with a new proposal. However, any battle over Rio
Tinto will be about far more than Glasenberg's deal-making prowess. It will shape the global mining
industry in the post-commodity-boom world.

And the outcome will be determined in large part by Beijing, whose anti-monopoly regulators have shown
themselves both willing and able to use their growing international clout to further China's global resource
strategies by forcing the sale of prize assets like copper mines to Chinese state-owned companies. That
means a successful Glencore bid for Rio Tinto will almost certainly end in the dismemberment of the
Anglo-Australian giant that has dominated the global mining scene for over a century, with Chinese
state-owned resource companies cherry-picking many of the company's choicest businesses. Catastrophic
business decisions Beijing has a stake in the fate of Rio Tinto not only as the miner's main customer but
also as its biggest investor. In 2008 state-owned behemoth Aluminum Corporation of China, or Chinalco,
paid &pound;60 a share for 9.8% of Rio Tinto, becoming the company's largest shareholder. Since then
Chinalco has seen the value of its investment severely eroded following a series of catastrophic business
decisions by Rio's senior management. The problems date back to 2007, shortly before Chinalco bought
in, when Rio Tinto outbid other competitors by US$10bn to acquire the Canadian aluminum giant Alcan Inc.
for US$38bn. This remains the world's largest all cash mining deal but the acquisition has not gone
smoothly. Rio Tinto badly underestimated the competition from the unrestrained expansion of Chinese
aluminum producers, which have flooded the market with their metal, depressing aluminum prices and
forcing Rio Tinto's management to write down two-thirds of its original investment. The Alcan purchase
was not Rio's only disastrous acquisition. In 2011 the company paid US$3.7bn for a coal mine in
Mozambique which was subsequently written down and sold for a mere US$50mn. Following the write-offs,
in 2013 Rio Tinto edged out its chief executive, Tom Albanese, along with a clutch of other executives
responsible for the valuedestroying acquisition program, replacing them with a new line-up headed by
Sam Walsh. The new management team was charged with refocusing the company by cutting costs,
disposing of underperforming assets and restoring the capital discipline that had previously been Rio
Tinto's hallmark. Walsh, who had come from the company's iron ore division was seen by the market as
the right man to cut the bloated overheads that had accumulated over the past decade. But while he has
reduced costs, Walsh has been less successful in disposing of unwanted assets. Attempts to sell an iron
ore mine in Canada, a range of aluminum assets, and diamond mines in Canada, Zimbabwe and Australia
have failed and the assets remain on the company's books as a drag on earnings. Iron dependency The
underperformance of Rio Tinto's recently acquired assets has left it more dependent than ever on its core
iron ore business, which makes up some 70% of the company's value. With production of 260m metric
tons per year and rising, Rio Tinto is the largest single supplier of iron ore to the seaborne market,
accounting for around 20% of the trade. That dependence means Rio Tinto has been brutally exposed to
this year's collapse in iron ore prices, which have fallen more than 45% to their lowest level since early
2009. The slump has been propelled in large measure by the actions of the major producers, including Rio
Tinto itself, which have flooded the market with low cost ore as a deliberate strategy to force higher cost
competitors, particularly those in China, to shutter their operations. The big miners defend their strategy
on the grounds that their costs are much lower than those of the smaller competitors they hope to drive out
of business. However, Rio Tinto's approach of pursuing volume at the expense of price has carried a heavy

Page44of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.cost for the miner. On one hand the 23% fall in Rio Tinto's share price this year (28% in US dollar terms)
has opened the company up to criticism from Glencore and prompted institutional investors to question
whether Walsh and his colleagues have any plans beyond their current policy of slashing costs. On the
other hand the slide in Rio Tinto's shares to less than half the price paid by Chinalco seven years ago has
exacerbated tensions with the company's Chinese shareholders, possibly leaving Beijing more receptive
to a proposed breakup of the mining giant. Heightened tensions Chinalco's stake in Rio Tinto has long
been a contentious issue within China's bureaucracy. Apart from the steady loss in value of their
investment, two particular issues grate with the Chinese. Firstly, despite being Rio Tinto's largest
shareholder they have never been invited to join the company's board, which many in Beijing regard as an
anti-Chinese slight. The second matter that irks the Chinese is that in 2009 Rio Tinto abrogated a
US$19.5bn deal that would have seen Chinalco double its stake in Rio Tinto and in the process gain two
seats on the company's board as well as joint venture status in several key mines, including Rio Tinto's
flagship iron ore mines in Western Australia. At the time Rio Tinto was struggling under a mountain of debt
acquired as a result of its disastrous 2007 tilt at Alcan, and the Chinese saw themselves as the company's
saviors. Chinese officials also have misgivings about Sam Walsh, Rio Tinto's CEO. They regard him as
aloof, more at home in London than Beijing and less sympathetic to Chinese concerns than his
predecessor Tom Albanese. Walsh also suffers in the eyes of Beijing because he was head of Rio Tinto's
iron ore division at a time the Chinese naively believe they were exploited by a cartel of western producers
which colluded to drive up the price of iron ore to the disadvantage of Chinese steel mills. That Rio Tinto's
Chinese iron ore negotiator, Stern Hu, was sentenced to ten years in jail for bribery and theft of state
secrets under Walsh's leadership of the ore business does nothing extra for the new CEO's reputation in
Beijing. Troubled history While Chinese officials may not be fond of Walsh's Rio Tinto, they also harbor
reservations about Glencore. These date back to 1997 when one of China's largest zinc producers lost
US$130mn selling zinc short in a rising market. At the time officials blamed Glencore for encouraging naive
managers to speculate beyond their means and capability, and warned other Chinese non-ferrous metal
producers about the risks of dealing with the trading company. While the official attitude has softened over
time, many senior executives in China's metals industry recall the incident and remain wary of doing
business with Glencore. It is likely their doubts have been compounded by Glencore's trading culture, which
seeks to maximize revenue. As the world's largest buyer of most minerals and metals, China naturally
prefers Rio Tinto's production approach, which tends to maximize volume, leading to lower prices than the
Glencore model. But although they have reservations about Glencore, both Chinalco and its political
masters could look favorably on a renewed Glencore bid for Rio. Indeed, it is likely Glencore's Glasenberg
has already smoothed the way. It was widely reported that Glasenberg spoke to Xiong Weiping, then
Chinalco's President, before approaching Rio Tinto in October. It is not known what they discussed, but
around the time of the reported meeting Chinalco established a committee of senior executives to examine
the company's strategic options, which suggests that discussions may have included Chinalco's possible
involvement in a Rio Tinto takeover. Deficient portfolio For Glencore, the advantages of a deal are clear. In
recent years it has built an impressive range of commodity businesses through acquisition, and now bills
itself as the only genuinely diversified natural resource company in terms of business activities,
commodities and geography. Copper accounts for a little over 20% of Glencore's value, with energy?coal
and oil?making up a similar proportion, while the company also has strong positions in zinc and nickel.
However, the big gap in Glencore's portfolio is iron ore, a deficiency that explains the company's interest
in Rio Tinto. Regulatory scrutiny Any tie-up between Glencore and Rio Tinto will certainly come under close
scrutiny from regulators, especially those in China where the authorities have shown that they are more
than willing to use their antimonopoly powers to benefit their national champions. Earlier this year Glencore
was forced to sell the Las Bambas mine in Peru, one of the world's largest copper projects, to the
Chinese-controlled and Hong Kong listed MMG for US$7 billion in order to secure the approval of
China's Ministry of Commerce for Glencore's acquisition of Xstrata. Copper would again attract regulatory
attention in any Glencore deal for Rio Tinto. Combined, the two companies would be the world's largest
producer, commanding over 2mn tons per year of copper production?equivalent to 18% of global
supply?and just pipping Chile's state-owned producer Codelco which has an annual production of just
under 2mn tons. But whereas Codelco's production is confined to Chile, a combined Glencore-Rio Tinto
would have greater geographic spread with mines in more than seven countries, including in Chile, where
Rio Tinto holds a 30% stake in the Escondida mine, which at 1mn tons a year is the world's largest copper
mine. Strategic priority Apart from the magnitude of the combined entity's current copper production, the
regulators would also be concerned with the potential of several large development projects to expand each
company's copper output. Rio Tinto has a 33.5% stake in Mongolia's Oyu Tolgoi, the world's largest
copper project, which is slated to produce 450,000 tons of copper per year before the end of the decade.
A large share in both the world's largest existing copper mine and its biggest copper development project
is hardly likely to go unnoticed, especially in China where copper is near the top of the list of commodities
nominated as a strategic priority. Regulators will also look closely at the combined companies' presence in
the thermal coal market. With access to nearly 70mn tons per year of production in Australia, South Africa
and Colombia, Glencore is the world's largest trader in the seaborne market. Regulators may well decide
that the addition of Rio Tinto's 28mn tons of Australian production would put Glencore in an unacceptably
dominant position, controlling over 10% of the world's seaborne trade in thermal coal. Divestments would
be likely in the aluminum business too, where it is probable the combination of Glencore's trading volumes

Page45of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.in primary aluminum?Glencore has an 8.75% stake in Russia's United Company RUSAL, the world's
largest producer of aluminium, and markets 40% of its output?with Rio Tinto's production of 3.6mn tons per
year would exceed regulators' tolerance levels. As a result, securing approval for a deal could take as long
as a year, with the divestment of assets to appease regulators likely to be a complicated and protracted
process, especially where Rio Tinto is locked into joint ventures which give its partners pre-emptive rights to
acquire the company's interests should it withdraw from the project. Yet forced divestments are unlikely to
faze Glencore's Glasenberg whose main objective remains the acquisition of Rio Tinto's vast and high
quality Australian iron ore assets. Retaining as many of Rio Tinto's other operations as possible would be
desirable, but Glasenberg is pragmatic enough to accept divestments as a small price to pay for ownership
of the world's best iron ore assets. In any case, Glencore is likely to find willing buyers among China's
state-owned companies. Chinalco, for example, may value a stake in Rio Tinto's low cost aluminum
smelters, which benefit from supplies of cheap non-polluting hydropower. And as with any divestments, the
proceeds would help fund the cash that Glencore would have to pay Rio Tinto's shareholders. Inefficiency
and corruption Whether China's political masters will be quite as enthusiastic about picking up Rio Tinto's
assets as the managers of their state-owned enterprises is less immediately obvious. China's state
resource companies are plagued by inefficiency and tainted by corruption scandals. Chinalco's new head,
Ge Honglin, was appointed last month with a brief to improve the company's disastrous bottom line?its
listed subsidiary lost RMB4.12bn in the first half of the year?and has hinted that employee numbers will be
heavily reduced. Meanwhile at least two of Chinalco's senior managers are being probed by the Central
Commission for Discipline Inspection for "serious violations of discipline and law". Sun Zhaoxue was
vice-chairman of Chalco, Chinalco's Hong Kong listed subsidiary and Li Dongguang was a vice-president
responsible for Chalco's international trading unit. The detention of such senior executives may prompt the
authorities to clip Chinalco's wings and concentrate major strategic decisions at a higher level. Moreover,
several of China's recent high profile resource investments, such as Citic Pacific's stake in Australia's Sino
Iron project, have proved to be financial disasters, prompting Beijing to be more judicious in their overseas
acquisitions. However, this does not mean China has abandoned its long-held plan to acquire
shareholdings in world class mineral assets. MMG's recent purchase of Las Bambas and Baosteel's
acquisition of Australian iron ore hopeful Aquila Resources suggest the Chinese are pragmatic buyers
who will make selective investments in commodities like copper and iron ore which they see as strategic
resources. That pragmatism will be to the fore in any deal for Rio Tinto. As the world's largest consumer of
iron ore, China deems the future of Rio Tinto to be of national importance. An approach to Chinalco by a
potential suitor for Rio Tinto would certainly be reported to the National Development Reform Council,
which would need to approve the involvement of a state entity, or the purchase of any assets divested by
the miner's new owner. That approval may well be forthcoming. Xiao Yaqing, who as president of Chinalco
first proposed a shareholding in Rio Tinto to the NDRC back in 2008, is now an influential deputy director at
the State Council. It is highly likely that he would be keen for Chinalco to participate in any takeover of Rio
Tinto as a vindication of his original strategy. Similarly, Chinalco's recently replaced President, Xiong
Weiping, is now chairman of the board of supervisors at the State-owned Assets Supervision and
Administration Commission. Although not as powerful as the NDRC, SASAC would also be consulted if any
state enterprise were to participate in a takeover of Rio Tinto. Like his predecessor Xiao, it is probable
Xiong would back the involvement of his former company. Such high-ranking Chinese support could prove
invaluable to Glencore. Since the global financial crisis, western banks have been reluctant to lend to
mining companies. And Glencore, with a relatively small market capitalization of US$58bn compared with
Rio Tinto's US$78bn, and with a higher debt ratio, could struggle to fund a deal through conventional
channels. However, if Glencore and Chinalco can agree on a takeover of Rio Tinto and a subsequent
division of the spoils, Beijing may be prepared to support the transaction financially via China's
state-owned banks. Calling the shots Securing a successful deal for Rio Tinto will still be difficult. But
dealmaking is a skill that Glencore has in abundance. Even Glasenberg's critics acknowledge that he has
yet to over-pay for any of his acquisitions. Furthermore, the cost savings achieved by Glencore following its
2013 acquisition of Xstrata demonstrate that Glasenberg's team is adept at stripping costs out of even the
most tightly run operations. With the end of the commodity boom, international mining companies will
need to adapt to a slower growth environment where capital is tighter, and where marketing skills which
maximize revenue are more important than production skills that target maximum volume. This is an
environment which is more familiar to Glencore than to Sam Walsh and his team at Rio Tinto, and it is an
environment in which Beijing and its state-owned enterprises are increasingly calling the shots.

 

Reprinted with permission of the publisher. Content included in this article is not by association the view of
FNArena (see our disclaimer).  

The information contained herein is provided for informational purposes only and should not be regarded as
an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy the securities or products mentioned. This document is a
private publication intended for private distribution. The value of all investments and any income generated
can decrease as well as increase. Performance numbers shown are records of past performance and as
such do not guarantee future performance. No representation is made that any one investor achieved any

Page46of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.of the results shown herein. This information is subject to change without notice. The securities and
products mentioned may not be eligible for sale in some states or countries, nor suitable for all types of
investors. Gavekal Research Limited does not warrant the accuracy, completeness, reliability, fitness for a
particular purpose or merchantability of this information, and expressly disclaim liability for errors or
omissions in this information and data. Gavekal Research Limited shall have no liability for the use, misuse,
or distribution of this information to unauthorized recipients. Find out why FNArena subscribers like the
service so much: "Your Feedback (Thank You)" - Warning this story contains unashamedly positive
feedback on the service provided.

FN Arena is building the future of financial news reporting at www.fnarena.com . Our daily news reports can
be trialed at no cost and with no obligations. Simply sign up and get a feel for what we are trying to achieve.

Subscribers and trialists should read our terms and conditions, available on the website.

All material published by FN Arena is the copyright of the publisher, unless otherwise stated. Reproduction
in whole or in part is not permitted without written permission of the publisher.

RF 2056509C-09A0-32EF-39B1D6220AA4D260
CO almcor : Aluminium Corporation of China Limited | march : Glencore PLC | orieml : MMG Limited | rtz : Rio
Tinto PLC | craaus : Rio Tinto Ltd | cminmc : China Minmetals Corporation | imreht : Inner Mongolia Baotou
Steel Rare-Earth (Group) Hi-Tech Co Ltd | lawspr : Minmetals Land Limited

IN i224 : Non-ferrous Metals | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | i2245 : Aluminum | i221 :

Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | i22 : Primary Metals | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
| i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services

NS c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | c182 : Asset Transactions | cacqu : Acquisitions | c18 : Ownership

Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter

RE china : China | chil : Chile | austr : Australia | beijin : Beijing | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :

Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries
| dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | lamz : Latin America | samz : South America

PUB FN Arena Ltd.
AN Document FNAREN0020141222eacm0002t

Page47of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.