Zone Q to fill city lifestyle void

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Zone Q to fill city lifestyle void

Marissa Lague
609 words
27 August 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
First
16
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

New developers are making their presence felt in Perth’s apartment market, with Zone Q
Investments, the Australian arm of Chinese developer HiaHe JianAn Group, marking its arrival by
selecting South Perth as its first Australian project.

It will build Pinnacle South Perth, a 20-storey tower opposite the entrance to Perth Zoo.

A development assessment panel approved the project, which has a construction value of $56
million and an end value of $100 million. It will include an eight-storey office tower along side the
residential tower.
Although new to Australia, HiaHe JianAn Group in the past decade has built more than 7000
apartments with a focus on Shenzhen, a key city and special economic zone in Southern China’s
Guangdong Province.
Colliers International director residential Jo-Anne Chin said Zone Q selected Perth ahead of other
cities for its first Australian development. The developer has already earmarked Perth for further
projects and has purchased two other sites.
“This is a company that puts significant thought and planning into its apartment developments —
everything from location, to size, to construction, to standard of finishes — and is committed to
delivering top-quality homes,” Ms Chin said.
“That they have selected Perth as the site of their first overseas investment and development, and
are already planning more, speaks to the confidence they have in our market and the opportunities
they see for quality residential offerings here.”
Chinese company 3 Oceans, which purchased two redevelopment properties — Oceans Plaza in
Scarborough for $26 million and the former Matilda Bay Brewery site in North Fremantle for $36
million — is reportedly also planning big apartment developments on those sites.
Cindy Lee, director at apartment specialist MLG Realty, said the absence of a CBD residential
lifestyle in Perth was obvious to apartment developers looking at social trends in Australia.

“Everyone is looking at Perth, it’s true there’s more Asian players in the market but there’s also more
Eastern States players and more syndicates are also being formed to develop sites,” Ms Lee said.

“It’s not necessarily Asian-driven, it’s just about the dynamics of the Perth market.

“Developers are coming to the Perth market because we haven’t embraced this lifestyle yet and we
are one of the few big, mining-driven, economically viable cities that has not embraced apartment
living to the scale that the city is capable of.”

Page213of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Ms Lee said MLG was working with about 30 developers, including overseas and Australian
companies, that were planning apartment projects in Perth because they recognised housing costs,
long commutes and lifestyle preferences were contributing to the shift towards apartment living.

Off-the-plan sales at Pinnacle South Perth start soon through Colliers International and Dempsey
Real Estate. Construction of the tower, on the corner of Charles Street and Labouchere Road, is
expected to start in the first half of 2015. The 4090sqm of commercial space will be sold by Knight
Frank and Ron Farris Real Estate.
Designed by architectural firm Hassell, Pinnacle will have 102 luxury apartments.
The development’s commercial tower will also include a retail component on the ground floor.
The development is the second high-rise apartment tower to be announced in South Perth this
month.
Finbar has plans for a 30-storey apartment tower with 295 apartments on South Perth’s civic triangle
site.

Approval has also been given for another development in the precinct, a six-storey mixed-use
building at 98 Mill Point Road.

A development application lodged by Doepel Marsh Architects outlines the detail of plans for 14
apartments and 1100sqm of office space.

NS

RE

PUB
AN

gplan : Urban Planning/Development | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International
Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics
austr : Australia | china : China | perth : Perth | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific |
asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document TWAU000020140826ea8r0001k

Page214of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.