2014: Year of the Chinese developer

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
2014: Year of the Chinese developer

Property observed Robert Harley
678 words
6 March 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
41
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Robert Harley

Kim Hawtrey, associate director at analysts BIS Shrapnel, has christened 2014 the Year of the
Chinese Developer.

"There is an X-factor in every cycle, and the X-factor in this cycle is the Chinese developer and the
Chinese consumer," he says. "That is what is providing the high octane boost to this housing
recovery."
In 2012-13 the Foreign Investment Review Board approved the purchase of $5.9 billion of
Australian real estate by Chinese buyers. By number, it is a fraction of the real estate sold across
Australia each year. But the buying is concentrated in certain markets, is high profile, and is
politically charged.

It could also grow dramatically, or stop abruptly, depending on what happens in an economy, and a
society, utterly different to that of Australia.
Credit Suisse research analyst Hasan Tevfik estimates the Chinese are buying 18 per cent of all
new housing in Sydney and 14 per cent of Melbourne's.
"While Australia has some of the most unaffordable housing in the world, further strong Chinese
demand can push prices even higher," he wrote.
"China is getting richer: there are currently 1.1 million Chinese that can easily afford to buy an
apartment in Sydney. We estimate the number will rise by 30 per cent by 2020. This should support
a further $44 billion of Australian residential property purchases over the next seven years."Short
or long-term?

For Dr Hawtrey, the big question is whether this is cyclical shift, like the vivid but short-lived
Japanese buying of the early 1990s, or a structural trend for the 21st century.

"We see grounds for believing this is a semi-permanent feature of the Australian market, particularly
in Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane," he says.
The shift has been underpinned by the intervention of Asian developers, like the China-based
Greenland, in the inner cities of Sydney and Melbourne.

Leading analyst, and principal of Deep End Services, Kevin Stanley, estimates the Asian developers
now have a pipeline – from site acquisition to construction – of 33,000 apartments.

With the Asian developers have come the Asian financiers. Many of the checks put on projects by
the Australian banks no longer apply.

Page69of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Whether long or short-term, this is a trend that needs to be understood.
If only because at some point the Chinese buying, and the impact on prices, will touch the Australian
psyche.

Late last year the internet carried the story of a Melbourne auction conducted in Mandarin.
Impossible to confirm, and strictly illegal, it touched many already struggling to buy a home.'Further
engagement'
FIRB chairman, investment banker Brian Wilson, visited China last May to "further the board's
engagement with officials and potential investors".
His board could also further its engagement with Australians. (He claims it is, in his report.)

Even the experts find the FIRB annual report, released last week for 2012-13, tardy, lacking in
meaningful detail and hard to reconcile with their own experience. In particular they tell nothing about
the flow of credit. Local citizens could be buying with money from that $US7 trillion ($7.8 trillion) pool
of Chinese shadow banks.

Hawtrey says the FIRB numbers give only part of the story. Tony Crabb, the research director of real
estate group Savills, says the FIRB's numbers on approvals to buy commercial property are
irreconcilable with Savills numbers on the actual investment in 2012-13.

Which is not to say they are wrong. Just that Crabb would like to know what is being counted. "The
report throws up more questions than it answers," he says.

Deep End Services' Stanley says the broad FIRB numbers do not help market understanding,
particularly of the link between offshore buying and price rises. "The FIRB should be able to release
data on a finer geographical basis, then you could compare prices and make some conclusions," he
says.
"This is one area where Australian property is not as transparent as it needs to be."

rharley@afr.com.au

IN
RE

PUB
AN

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
austr : Australia | china : China | melb : Melbourne | sydney : Sydney | victor : Victoria (Australia) |
apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz :
Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz :
Eastern Asia | nswals : New South Wales
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140305ea360003d

Page70of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.