Western Australia: Sparing the Mine and Spoiling the Miner

MINING IN WESTERN AUSTRALIA

SE
HD Western Australia: Sparing the Mine and Spoiling the Miner
WC 6,032 words
PD
SN
SC
PG
VOL Volume 215; Issue 1; ISSN: 00958948
LA
CY

1 January 2014
Engineering & Mining Journal
EMJN
50

English
Copyright (c) 2014 Engineering & Mining Journal. Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning. All
rights Reserved.

LP

TD

If Australia is known as "the lucky country," then Western Australia could be considered the luckiest of its
five states and two territories. The nickname, coined by Australian professor Donald Horne in the 1960s,
was largely inspired by the abundance of natural resources that punctuate the country's landscape.
Western Australia is a vast area that covers nearly one-third of Australia's total surface and is home to
some of the world's largest iron ore deposits, as well as over 50 other metals and minerals. Queensland
may have coal, Victoria may have gold, but Western Australia has a culture and history deeply rooted in
mining and resources, which it has used to its benefit; becoming the fastest-growing state in Australia.

Mining and resources have always been the backbone of Western Australia's economy. In 2012, the
value of the state's mineral and petroleum sector was A$97 billion, which is the second-highest total in
history, behind the record A$108 billion in 2011 according to the Department of Mines and Petroleum.
Western Australia and the national economy continue to benefit from the growth in the resources sector.
Confidence has returned to the market on the back of solid price rises in iron ore. As of October 2012,
committed capital expenditure on major projects in Western Australia increased by 4.1% to A$141 billion
from the $135 billion at the end of April 2012. West Australian resources companies total market
capitalization at the end of November 2012 stood at A$86 billion, an increase of 2.1% from the end of
August 2012. This growth has strengthened post-election, with strong results posted by majors BHP
Billiton, Fortescue Metals Group and Rio Tinto. This looks to translate into strong, stable growth in the
coming period. BIS Shrapnel, a market forecasting service, has forecast mineral production in Australia to
increase by 41% over the next five years: a far cry from the dim-results predicted in the first half of 2013.
However, Western Australia's mining industry must now solve a series of structural problems, the
answers to which will define the face of the industry moving forward. Western Australia has grown fat off
its "luck," but the rise of the Pilbara and the country's oil and gas industry have come at a cost. Mines and
their ore bodies have been spared: their miners, spoiled. Mine productivity has hit a historic low as wage
rates have hit a historic high. Compounded with a downturn in global commodity prices, this dynamic has
led some to question the economics of West Australian mining. Yet West Australian mining remains
viable. From the beating which global commodity markets have inflicted on the industry, a better industry
is now emerging: innovative and lean.
New Frontiers in Iron Ore
Iron ore continues to be the driver of Western Australia's mining industry. Nearly 93% of Australia's iron
ore deposits are found in the state, with most of these being located in the world-class Pilbara region,
home to mining giants Rio Tinto, BHP Billiton and homegrown Fortescue Metals Group. However, a new
iron ore region is emerging in the Midwest, with large hematite deposits ready to be mined as soon as
port and rail challenges are solved.
Most iron ore is shipped from the port of Esperance, on the southern coast, or Port Hedland in the north,
but these two main hubs are already operating over capacity. A much desired A$6 billion development of
the Oakajee port in the western part of the state held promise, but was recently suspended due to a lack
of interest from potential joint venture partners; leaving a slew of juniors - and investorsin limbo, whose
development depends on regional investment.

Page177of210©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Some, however, view the region's development as only a matter of time. Padbury Mining, a fellow
member of the Geraldton Iron Ore Alliance, which has 1 billion mt of JORC-compliant magnetite and
11.5 million mt of direct shipping ore in the Midwest region, took the unusual step of acquiring the
intellectual property from a failed Chinese-backed bid for the development of Oakajee's infrastructure.
The intellectual property itself is held in a subsidiary, which Padbury's CEO, Gary Stokes, hopes to divest
to an infrastructure development company.

"Peak Hill's region could absolutely become the next Pilbara," said Stokes. "We believe there are 50
billion mt there; already 21 billion mt, JORC-compliant, have been identified. The Midwest is set to grow
exponentially, just as soon as the infrastructure developments go ahead. China has an exposure of
perhaps $5 billion in the Midwest, so it is not just going to sit and watch."
Grappling with the Gold Market
Western Australia's evolution has historically been tied to gold rushes. Today, Western Australia is home
to one of the country's largest gold mines at Boddington, owned by Newmont, and exciting new
discoveries like Tropicana, a 118 million mt resource containing 7.89 million oz of gold. However, the
recent slide in price of gold has been strongly felt by gold miners operating in the state. Average cash
costs for operating gold mines in Western Australia are above A$1,000/oz. While still economic, falling
prices and escalating costs are creating an environment of uncertainty amongst the state's gold miners.

Enter small juniors, who are attempting to make economic projects out of less. The projects coming into
fruition in Western Australia over the near term are those that have less reserves or a shorter mine life,
but lower cash costs and, as a result, are highly profitable.
Doray Minerals that owns the Andy Well project in the northern Murchison region poured first gold in
September 2013. The 444,000 oz resource is expected to produce around 74,000 oz/y of gold over a
four-year mine life. With cash costs at around A$900/oz, the payback period for investors is likely to be
less than two years.
Doray's managing director, Allan Kelly, explained how the company was able to convince shareholders
that Andy Well was worth mining. "The market's focus has been on ounces instead of grade. The
simplest way to value companies is by putting an enterprise value per resource ounce, and when we are
trading at A$300/oz, the market viewed us as overvalued. A company that has 1 million oz at 1g/mt
might be trading at AS20/oz, and compared to them Doray seems expensive. However, these projects
might not even go into production," he said.
Despite the high costs of getting gold out of the ground in Western Australia, the assets are still attractive
to overseas players. In August 2012, Zijin Mining, the No. 1 gold producer and No. 2 copper producer in
China, acquired 89% of ASX-listed Norton Gold Field's shares. As Dr. Diamen Chen, Norton's
Perth-based CEO. explained, Zijin's strategy was always to develop internationally and it saw Norton, and
specifically the company's Paddington gold mine, as a good platform for the company's overseas
growth. "Norton's strategy is to increase gold production, reduce costs and to seek further merger and
acquisition opportunities to expand its operations in Australia. Our plan is to double production in the
next three to five years while significantly reducing operating costs. The company will increase the mill
feed grade; last year our resource grade was higher than our mill grade, so the development of a large
base load mill feed, which we called Enterprise, will provide over five years base load mill feed for our
operations, at 1.72g/mt. The higher mill feed will provide us with the opportunity to significantly increase
our gold production over the next few years," said Dr. Chen.
Gold companies that are currently at the development stage face the challenge of building
capital-intensive mines without steady cash flow. Gascoyne Resources is targeting production at their 1
million oz Glenburgh project by late 2014. "We did a placement late last year to some large gold funds in
the United Kingdom, and have been doing a lot fundraising to allow us to continue aggressive
exploration." said Michael Dunbar, managing director of Gascoyne Resources. "It is important for us to
keep drilling because once the company loses momentum it takes a huge amount of time to gain it back.
In the meantime, the company is still responsible for administrative expenses."

Despite the challenge of a high-cost environment, Doray's Allan Kelly believes that the opportunities
outweigh the negatives. "There is more gold to be found in the state, both in known deposits and
previously operating mines. Also, the big gold companies that acquired most of the mid-tier companies in
the 1990s are now beginning to spin out projects that have not been worked on for many years," he said.
A sense of historical perspective is needed to understand the impact that the changing price of gold has
had on the viability of Western Australia gold exploration and production. Changes in the price of gold
over the course of the past five years have had a net-positive impact; the industry has picked up projects
that were once previously deemed uneconomical. Additionally, the volatility seen in the price of gold

Page178of210©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.-while undoubtedly sucking millions from the market in fallen valuationshas not come without a silver
lining; those that have hedged their resources and hedged smartly have guaranteed the tenability of their
mine.
Through the Nullagine gold mine, Millennium Minerals is one of these few companies that has exhibited
strong results in spite of a decline in the perceived feasibility of a West Australian gold
exploration-to-production story. Part of a tenement package acquired by Millennium Minerals in 2001, the
resource body of the Nullagine gold mine was explored extensively until 2005, when exploration ceased
on account of what were uneconomic grades of mineralization at the time. The gold price then stood at
less than $600/oz.
A rise in the price of gold, however, gave way to production. Brian Rear, managing director of Millennium
Minerals explained: "The Nullagine Gold Project was the subject of a feasibility study back in 2006,
however, the availability of engineering capabilities, experienced manpower and the low gold price
combined to see the project put on the shelf. By mid 2009, the viability of the project changed with the
price of gold rising and with a lot of the industry pressures such as manpower and capital construction
demand easing."
In September of 2012, the Nullagine gold mine poured its first brick of bullion. Commercial-scale
production commenced in January of 2013. Though the operation initially assumed an eight-year mine
life, this will likely be extended; resource estimations have since placed the ore body in excess of 1
million oz of gold.
Although the Nullagine gold mine was conceptualized at a time when the price of gold was greater than
the price at which it stood in the second half of 2013, Rear is unfazed regarding the impact that future
turbulence in gold pricing might have on the profitability of the mine, even with an effective break even
cost of $1,100/oz. Rear said: "Should the gold price change, the way in which we mine the deposits will
change as well. Should the gold price fall significantly, the Nullagine gold mine will continue to produce;
half of our gold is hedged at a price of A$1,630/oz."

Nickel-and-Diming Nickel Deposits

For a commodity whose price has been in the doldrums for the past few years, surprisingly, some of the
most exciting stories to emerge recently from Western Australia have been from nickel companies. Sirius
Resourc- es's share price rose by nearly 3,500% with the discovery of Nova and Bollinger.

Excitement around these discoveries has been contagious. Reciting a mantra of "grade is king" to those
that might criticize exploration for the commodity at a time when nickel has been the worst performing
base metal of 2013, resource exploration companies have acquired concessions surrounding those of
Sirius, hoping to strike the 3% grade mineralization that has made Sirius famous. Hopefuls include Matsa
Resources, who has seen promising drill results for polymetallic mineralization at its Symons Hill project
which, is located about 6 km from Nova; Rumble Resources, who also has early stage work near Nova;
and Sheffield Resources, whose Redbull project has shown a mineral signature similar to that of Bollinger
and Nova.

Should these prospects materialize in high-grade nickel mineralization, they could be met with a more
receptive market in the coming years. David Singleton, Poseidon Nickel's CEO, is bullish on nickel prices.
"Nickel forecasts are predicting huge price rises by 2015, due to supply problems in the market. As long
as the demand side is reasonable, then the supply side is going to struggle to fill in the gap," he said.

The way in which this may play out, however, could be nuanced. Sirius's CEO. Mark Bennett,
distinguishes between the wider nickel market and the sulphide subset, which holds a different set of
dynamics. "There are a number of smaller producers of concentrate, and the majors with downstream
processing infrastructure are continually looking for more feed. Anyone who can produce a good nickel
sulphide concentrate is in a good position to market the product," he said.

Rox Resources, who recently intersected nickel sulphide mineralization at Mt Fisher, is also hoping to
capitalize on the sulphide distinction. The company was able to raise A$5 million last year on the back of
the excitement generated by the discovery, said Ian Mulholland, Rox's managing director. "For the vast
majority of exploration companies in Australia, it is still extremely difficult to raise funds, and companies
are forced to do so at discounts to their share price. We need to get an understanding of what we are
dealing with before making significant investments."

Western Australia's Diversified Commodities Base
Most of the investor attention to Western Australia is focused on iron ore and precious metals.
Companies operating outside of this sphere have to overcome a distinct set of financial and regulatory
challenges.

Page179of210©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The state has some of the best-known uranium deposits in the world, but uranium production in the state
has lagged far be hind its potential. Australia holds more than a third of the world's known uranium
resources. yet it contributes less than 20% to the world's current supply.

This gap could start to change, thanks to the West Australian state government's April 2013 decision to
grant the state's first uranium mining license to Toro Energy's Wiluna project. Toro Energy's managing
director, Dr. Vanessa Guthrie, said: "The state government's decision in 2008 to commence uranium
mining created real momentum and excitement within Western Australia's uranium community, and was
the signal that triggered Toro Energy to kick off Wiluna. The government's re-election in March 2013
created significant certainty and predictability for the uranium sector in the state -our projects now have
four more years of clear support," she said.
However, Western Australia has no history of uranium mining, which, according to Brian Reilly,
managing director of Cameco Australia, creates a fear of the unknown. Cameco, a major global uranium
player, owns a portfolio of exploration-stage uranium projects in Western Australia. "Northern Territory
and South Australia have been producing safely and efficiently for decades, but in Western Australia
much more education needs to be done," said Cameco's Reilly.

Western Australia's rare earths industry is facing the problem of educating investors about the value of
less understood mining projects. "Some people now think the rare earth market is over. The
fundamentals are still there, but visible value is lacking," said George Bauk, CEO and managing director
of Northern Minerals, a rare earths developer.
Rare earths in particular have a potentially exciting future in Western Australia, as China, the world's
largest producer of the commodity, recently made moves to curb its exports in order to satisfy internal
demand.

Mineral sands players are hoping for a similar supply void caused by the price shock that triggered the
three dominant producers to curb their production. David Harley, managing director of Gunson
Resources, explained: "When the industry suffers a price shock, the big producers stop selling their
product, creating an opportunity for smaller players to gain market share."

Even though some analysts believe that demand will increase, it may not translate into investment for
mineral sands projects thanks to the steep drop in zircon prices. "Now that zircon prices have retreated to
around US$ 1,400 mt from highs of US$ 2,500 mt in 2012, investors perceive zircon producers with more
caution," said Peter Davies, managing director of Image Resources.

Fortifying Western Australia's Mineral Base
Although Western Australia may be famed for the iron ore deposits of the Pilbara and the gold deposits
of Goldfields-Esperance, the state produces over fifty commodities, many of which are of global
significance.

Comprising an estimated 30% of the world's supply of lithium, Talison Lithium, through its Greenbushes
mine, the state's oldest mine still in production, has sought to further expand its importance to the global
electronics market through the development of a mineral conversion plant that will convert lithium
concentrate into lithium carbonate, allowing the company to directly access some of the world's most
important chemical markets such as Japan, South Korea and the USA. Although development of the
mineral conversion plant is still tentative, the conceptualization of the plant drew significant interest from a
number of parties: first Rockwood Holdings, and later Chengdu Tianqi Industry Group, who acquired the
company for C$848 million in March, 2013.

Equally significant is Australian production of mineral sands through market leader lluka Resources, the
single largest producer of zircon globally, as well as titanium dioxide products rutile and synthetic rutile,
lluka Resource's success has rippled across West Australia's mining industry, creating an industry for
mineral sands exploration through having developed an educated investor base.

Bruce McQuitty, managing director of Sheffield Resources, which was recently named "Best Emerging
Company" at Australia's Diggers & Dealers Conference for their Dampier Mineral Sands project, said:
"lluka Resources has helped many emerging mineral sands companies in that they have provided
investors with an analogy to which they can look."

This relationship, however, has not been purely beneficial. Smaller mineral sands players have seen the
economic feasibility of their projects determined by their access to market. This can involve waiting for the
market to open up. David Harley, managing director of Gunson Resources, a resource exploration
company with the Coburn Min- eral Sands project in Western Australia, explains: "When the industry
suffers a price shock, the big producers stop selling their product, creating an opportunity for smaller
players to gain market share."

Page180of210©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Changes in the production figures of major mineral sands producers can lead investors to sour on the
commodity in spite of its strong long-term outlook, in turn forcing mineral sands exploration companies to
alter their financial strategies. Bruce McQuitty, managing director of Sheffield Resources said: "This has
led Sheffield Resources to capitalize itself through options and the sale of non-core projects like that of
our iron project in the Pilbara."

Another commodity that is not usually associated with Western Australia is potash, although two
companies are hoping to put their projects into production over the next few years. Russia and Canada
have dominated the world's potash market. but West Australian potash players are confident that they can
break that stronghold. "It is going to be challenging to break through," said Patrick McManus, managing
director of Potash West, an early-stage potash player. "The growth of China as an iron ore market
changed the iron ore supply business, and we are seeing that with the potash market now."

Incentivizing Exploration

Exploration expenditure has dramatically reduced in Australia over recent years. According to estimates,
the current level of producing mines and those close to development will sustain the mining industry in
Western Australia for another 15 to 20 years. With less greenfields exploration activity. the future beyond
2030 is murky.

There are a number of reasons why exploration expenditure has declined in Western Australia, according
to Reg Howard Smith, CEO of the Chamber of Minerals and Energy of Western Australia (CME), the
main representative body of the resources sector in Western Australia. "The high cost of exploration in the
state is a significant problem: over the last few years Western Australia has become one of the most
expensive regions in which to operate. There is also a lot more competition on a regional level, causing
many exploration companies to find greater opportunities in Africa," he said.

Companies who stay in Western Australia face a costly approvals process that eats into their precious
exploration capital. As KPMG's national leader, natural resources Helen Cook explained: "Our regulatory
environment is highly complex, from federal to state to local regulations, and a number of new taxes have
been introduced."

The number of prospecting and exploration applications in the state dropped by almost 50% in the fourth
quarter of 2012, the lowest level since 2009. Industry representatives such as the Association of Mining
and Exploration Companies (AMEC) have called for a more streamlined process and less duplication
amongst various departments to help junior miners secure licenses.

One option seriously being considered would be a measure similar Canada's flow-through incentives
scheme, where mineral exploration companies can pass tax breaks for exploration onto investors.
Although the Australian government has examined the scheme in the past, no such incentive exists
despite backing by industry representatives.

"The CME supports greater incentives for exploration, such as flow-through shares, but it is difficult for the
federal government to support a similar scheme in Australia since there has been major investment into
the iron ore sector, making it difficult to justify exploration incentives." explained Reg Howard-Smith of the
CME.

This, however, is changing. The introduction of an exploration incentives scheme was one campaign
promise made by the Coalition in this year's presidential election. Tentatively, such a scheme would be
implemented in July of 2014.

For those investors who braved investing in resource exploration previously, the market has rewarded
them handsomely. Case in point is Sirius Resources's Nova nickel-copper discovery in August 2012.
With just over A$1 million in cash, the company managed to uncover an entirely new deposit in the
Albany Fraser Range. The resource comprises of over 10 million mt of 2.4% nickel, 1% copper and
0.08% cobalt. "The target was such that if we drilled the hole and found nothing, it would be all over. The
company only had A$500,000 felt when we hit mineralization. It had looked so prospective all along that
we did not want to allow ourselves to believe it was real; it was either graphite or one of the world's
biggest nickel deposits, and it turned out to be the latter," said Sirius's managing director Mark Bennett.

Since the Nova discovery, an almost inconceivable stream of good news has emerged from the project as
further drilling revealed a similar deposit to Nova, which Sirius has named Bollinger. At press time, the
company had more than A$60 million in cash and is actively drilling to advance the project toward
feasibility.

Their success signals a new era for West Australian explorers, opening up previously underexplored or
even virgin regions and highlighting the need to keep drilling despite challenging circumstances. Only

Page181of210©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.then will the capital markets follow suit and return Western Australia to the dominant position it once
enjoyed as a leading destination for exploration enthusiasm.

Cost Controls and the Push for Mine Profitability
A critical challenge for the mining industry in Western Australia is to manage the rising cost of doing
business in the state while increasing operational productivity. Costs have risen exponentially over the
last decade, far outpacing that of the rest of Australia and negatively impacting Western Australia's
competitiveness in the global mining industry.

Productivity, classified here as both labor and capital expenditure versus output, has declined significantly
over the same time frame. The recent high commodity prices led to less skilled and experienced
employees getting paid exorbitant wages to mine more marginal deposits, requiring more ore to be
processed at a lower grade. This vicious cycle caused a 50% drop in labor productivity and a 37% drop in
capital productivity.
Steve Coughlan, managing director of Byrnecut, explains: "Labor costs in the mining resources sector
across Australia have increased more quickly than productivity through the last couple of boom periods.
Long term that is not sustainable. Labor shortages during the booms and the push by mine owners to
execute projects regardless of the costs exacerbated this problem. These input costs are flat lining in the
current downturn. Labor productivity and mine efficiency are more critical to the success of current and
future projects in Australia given the drop in metal prices."
Gascoyne Resources's Michael Dunbar points to the mining industry's adoption of a fly-in, fly-out lifestyle
as one of the causes of cost overruns. With many mines located in remote areas of the state, companies
have little choice but to import staff on a rotational basis. "We are seeing people moving away from fly-in,
fly-out 2/1 rosters to 8/6 rosters, which is incredibly inefficient because in essence you need two people to
do one job and, with labor costs already high, it is making the industry essentially uncompetitive," he said.
The key for any company is to be profitable, and the way to do this is to increase the cash margin,
according to Norton Gold Fields's CEO, Dr. Dianmen Chen.

"In the past Paddington had been singled out as being a high-cost project, but over the past 9 months we
have increased production and implemented a strict cost control environment. We have invested in an
owner-mining fleet for both our open cut and underground operations, which were commissioned in
2013 and have helped drive our production costs down," he said.
The successful mining companies in Western Australia are the ones that are managing costs and
increasing efficiencies, according to Scott Jackson, managing director of QG, a Perth-based mining
consultancy. "The adoption of technology is essential and companies must examine methods of
exploration that will reduce upfront costs instead of relying on traditional techniques."
Ray Hince, general manager of recruitment company JDA Applus Velosi, said: "It is difficult to rein in an
established labor cost base, so the best strategy is to cut people out of your processing equation to
reduce capital maintenance costs. A number of companies are following Rio Tinto's drive to automation.
There will always be a requirement for maintainers, supervisors, planners, managers and professionals,
but a lot of operational expenses can be cut," he said.

This has led to opportunities for some. Steve Coughlan of Byrnecut said: "We embrace innovation to drive
productivity, and, for example, have developed new underground trucking technology with Powertrans, a
Brisbane based truck manufacturer, to this end. The DAT60 is designed for ramp truck haulage in mines
producing at depths previously considered to be at the limit for underground truck haulage. Six of these
trucks are now in use at Gwalia Deeps mine hauling from a vertical depth of 1500m.
Perth: A Center of Mining Excellence

Australian companies have not been as quick to explore outside their borders as their Canadian
counterparts, but this is quickly changing. Although Perth-based companies have operations all over the
world, a large proportion of mining companies are focused on the African continent. There are over 240
ASX-listed companies that are based in Australia but have operations in Africa.
Bill Turner, chairman of the Perth-based Australia Africa Mining Industry Group, explained the attraction
of the continent to West Australian miners: "Africa has undergone some challenging times since the end
of the colonial period, from civil wars to dictatorships, but the situation has changed dramatically over the
past twenty years. The continent has not been explored to the extent that Western Australia has been.
The topography is very similar to Western Australia."

Page182of210©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Peak Resources are working to advance their Ngualla rare earths project in Tanzania, which is on track to
a 2016 production target. According to the company's chairman, Alastair Hunter: "Australian companies
are becoming more and more adept at working in Africa and have a clearer understanding of how to cope
with the issues."
Mining companies working in Africa have a very different range of issues to deal with than in Australia.
There are political risk issues, poverty, bribery and corruption, and the responsibility to assist in
developing a viable industry in an infrastructure and educationally challenged region. Of particular
concern is the degree of sovereign risk, or resource nationalization, associated with certain African
destinations; the chance that a company could stand to lose their project is much more real in Africa.
The allure of Africa as an investment destination translates into an A$50 billion flow of capital into the
continent. Though historically, this has been generated by resource exploration and mineral production,
as a consequence of the current state of business in Western Australia, many METS companies have
found that the greatest growth opportunities lie overseas. Steve Coughlan explained in the case of
Byrnecut that, "while the Australian market is not saturated and opportunities continue to exist
domestically, the largest relative contributor to growth for Australian business will be found in
opportunities present within foreign markets."

Perhaps directly as a response to the realization of the state of the domestic market, in September of
2013, West Australian premier Colin Barnett announced that the industry would see greater levels of
collaboration between the government of West Australia and African governments. Focused on
knowledge transfer in areas such as resource policy, these forthcoming agreements seek to strengthen
West Australia's foothold in Africa; a reflection on both the advanced nature of West Australian mining
and where the future of the industry lays.

The allure of overseas exploration does not end on the African continent. An increasing number of
Perth-based juniors are making inroads into Central Asia, Europe and South America, a historically
Canadian-dominated mining region. Companies such as Azure Minerals and Laconia Resources are
generating a great deal of interest in projects in Mexico and Peru respectively. As 2014 dawns, expect to
see more West Australian juniors on the global mining scene.
West Australian Mining: Forward, to Better Days

The steep drop in commodity prices and lack of available risk capital wreaked havoc on West Australian
miners. The boom and bust cycle, however, is not a new trend in the mining industry, and stakeholders
are confident that good times will return. These tougher times demonstrate just how sentiment-driven the
mining industry is; where using emotion-laden terms such as boom and bust can have a profound
economic effect.
Reg Howard-Smith of the CME prefers not to use such language when discussing the mining industry.
"We focus on sustained economic growth," he said. "There have definitely been interesting commodity
price movements over the last decade, but we will see a major pickup in production that will contribute
towards the sustainable development of the state. The sector is changing, not ending."

"Australia is in very good shape with excellent opportunities," said Liam Twigger, managing director of
Perth-based financial house PCF Capital. "At the moment, however, companies are operating in an
environment where the market expects an imminent cataclysmic event, so nobody is putting money into
mining stocks. The good news is that many Australian companies are not saddled with debt, have good
projects and experienced management teams."
Despite a slowdown in transactional activity, PCF Capital's Twigger is confident that Australia remains
an attractive destination for foreign capital. "Chinese investment will continue, although we have probably
passed the peak investment period. Australia remains a compelling investment proposition compared to
other destinations and the Chinese are very comfortable with the regulatory regime here and the
transparency it provides. Africa remains an alluring target for foreign investment, but the continent
continues to generate new ways of relieving investors of their money and their projects if they are not
careful," he said.

Some signs of relief can be seen on the horizon: analysts are confident that the Australian dollar will soon
drop to more manageable levels as the United States edges closer to energy independence and the
European debt crisis is resolved. As well, labor costs are due to drop once construction of the large-scale
liquefied natural gas projects is completed.

Patrick Coquerel, head of natural resources at Westpac, summarized the state of the market: "Westpac's
Chief Economist Bill Evans looks at three phases to three phases to the boom. The first is the free lunch,
when commodity prices skyrocket and resources companies make a lot more money at no extra expense.
Over the last ten years commodity prices rose sixor seven-fold; now they are down to five times their

Page183of210©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.original level, still relatively high. The second phase, which the industry is at the end of now, is the
construction boom, in response, in this case, to high demand from Asia. This led the Australian Dollar to
soar and to the high costs and productivity issues we have seen... Westpac does not believe there will be
any more greenfield LNG developments in Australia for quite some time now... This will release more
capacity for mining. The third phase will see income start to enter Australia from new production, which
will continue to create great wealth for the country for many years. Having said that the corporate tax
revenue will be limited by large depreciation allowances in the immediate stages of the production boost
so it's not all a bed of roses in stage three. However, if the Australian dollar comes off further, costs will
reduce, and it will still be a very positive story."
Inevitably, West Australian mining companies will have to adapt to economic circumstances. Once
confidence returns, the industry's key players agree that the state will continue to benefit from its blessed
mineral endowments and strong expertise. "Western Australia is still a great place to explore," said West
Australian Minister for Mines and Petroleum Bill Marmion. "One only needs to see the success of the
major companies operating in the region in order to understand how much potential exists in the state."
WA's Newest Gold Producer
ASX:DRM Doray Minerals is Western Australia's newest high-grade gold miner and producer at its Andy
Well Gold Project in the northern Murchison region of WA. The Company's transformation from junior
explorer to gold producer in just 3-5 years has been meteoric. There is near-term project upside with the
potential for additional deposits and the Company has an excellent track record of meeting milestones on
time and under budget. A strategic portfolio of gold properties in the Murchison and South Australia
places the Company in an enviable position of future potential upside and returns to shareholders. Led by
an experienced team with a track record of discovery, development and production, Doray is now a
low-cost gold producer and self-funded explorer.

www.dorayminerals.com.au52
A much desired A$6 billion development of the Oakajee port in the western part of the state held
promise, but was recently suspended due to a lack of interest from potential joint venture partners; leaving
a slew of juniors - and investorsin limbo, whose development depends on regional investment. Padbury
Mining, a fellow member of the Geraldton Iron Ore Alliance, which has 1 billion mt of JORC-compliant
magnetite and 11.5 million mt of direct shipping ore in the Midwest region, took the unusual step of
acquiring the intellectual property from a failed Chinese-backed bid for the development of Oakajee's
infrastructure.
Copyright Mining Media, Inc. Jan 2014

CO rtzcra : Rio Tinto Group | ambol : Fortescue Metals Group Ltd
IN

i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | i224
: Non-ferrous Metals | i231 : Non-metallic Mineral Mining/Quarrying | i763 : Port/Harbor Operations | imet :
Mining/Quarrying | iuran : Uranium Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | iship : Water
Transport/Shipping | itsp : Transportation/Logistics
c133 : Patents | c151 : Earnings | c31 : Marketing/Markets | c314 : Pricing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial
News | gjob : General Labor Issues | gplan : Urban Planning/Development | c15 : Financial Performance |
cgymtr : Intellectual Property Rights | cinprp : Industrial Property Rights | gcat : Political/General News |
gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania

NS

RE

IPD Feature
PUB Mining Media, Inc.
AN

Document EMJN000020140327ea110000u

Page184of210©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.