A Tiaro coal mine is closer

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

A Tiaro coal mine is closer

301 words
2 July 2014
The Gympie Times
APNGYT
Main
4
English
Copyright 2014 APN Newspapers Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved

Promising new surveys prompt big investment
PROMISING new coal indications near Tiaro have lifted expectations of a new coal mining industry
to Gympie’s near north.

Results of testing near existing high quality identified resources have attracted significant interest
from major Singapore investment and holding company, ICP Ltd.

Friday’s announcement of early results from testing of new areas was published in The Gympie
Times yesterday.
Tiaro Coal Limited’s share prices rose rapidly on high volume in recent days and ICP yesterday
announced it had now acquired 22.6 million shares, representing 19.9% equity.
“ICP regards the acquisition as an opportunity to participate in the Australia coal exploration and
mining industry, and considers Tiaro Coal a compelling investment,” ICP chairman Mick Aw said
yesterday.
“The acquisition will also form the basis of a strategic relationship with China Qinfa Group Limited,
a group that has coal trading and mining assets in China.
“We anticipate this association may provide further opportunities in the development of coal
resources across Asia and Australia.
Tiaro Coal’s managing director Dan Buckley welcomed ICP’s entry into the company.

“We are heartened by the confidence shown by ICP,” he said.
“In addition, we are hopeful that with such formidable support, Tiaro Coal will be able to move
forward with its plans to develop a viable coking-PCI coal mine in Queensland.”
Already identified high quality coal resources have been estimated at 87 million tonnes.

Referring to the latest optimistic early findings nearby, Mr Buckley said the recent small exploration
program was immediately south of the current T9 resource area.

“If additional resources are ultimately confirmed, then these would be outside the previously
announced resource,” he said.

CO
IN

NS
RE

cqinfa : China Qinfa Group Limited | gocoi : ICP Limited | tiarco : Tiaro Coal Limited
imet : Mining/Quarrying | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | i1 : Energy | i111 : Coal Mining |
i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
gcat : Political/General News
queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia

Page85of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB
AN

APN Newspapers Pty Ltd
Document APNGYT0020140701ea72000ru

Page86of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.