Goodman sold to consortium for $1.4  billion

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Goodman sold to consortium for $1.4 billion

Michael Smith and Tim Binsted
558 words
17 May 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
35
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Goodman Fielder has accepted a revised $1.37 billion takeover bid for the iconic food group after the
board bowed to pressure from key shareholders who agreed to sell stakes in the company to the
group's Asian suitors.
The Goodman Fielderboard agreed late on Friday to recommend shareholders accept a revised 70¢ a
share offer from Singapore oils trader Wilmar International and Hong Kong investment company First
Pacific.

The revised proposal values the maker of Wonder White bread, White Wings flour and Meadow Lea
margarine at $1.37 billion, or $1.9 billion including debt. Shareholders will receive an additional 1¢ in
the form of a final dividend to be paid this year. "We believe this revised proposal also demonstrates
the strength of our underlying business and brands but also the opportunity to leverage these assets
to grow the business across the Asian region," chairman Steve Gregg said.
The company's blessing was conditional on the bidding consortium entering into a scheme
implementation agreement and that no superior proposal emerges during a period of non-exclusive
due diligence.
Wilmar and First Pacific were threatening to walk away if the company did not accept the revised offer
by 8pm on Friday. While Ellerston and Perpetual backed the revised bid, it is understood major
shareholder Harris Associates was not supportive.
Analysts said the board had little choice but to accept the new offer. Wilmar and First Pacific raised
their takeover offer for Goodman Fielder from 65¢ to 70¢ a share on Thursday, confirming an
exclusive report in The Australian Financial Review.
The revised offer was not as high as investors or the board wanted but the company was left with
little choice after a series of earnings downgrades left it vulnerable to a takeover.

The bidders earlier secured conditional agreements to purchase part of the stakes of Goodman
Fielder's two largest shareholders, Ellerston Capital and Perpetual Investments.
The sale process for its New Zealand dairy business has been put on hold, pending the outcome of
due diligence.

Goodman Fielder has disappointed investors with a series of earnings downgrades in recent years,
further complicating matters for the board who were initially reluctant about accepting the revised
offer.

One fund manager said: "If management had been executing, shareholders would be more likely to
back them. The fact that the shareholders [Ellerston and Perpetual] are tipping in at this price puts a lot
of pressure on them."

Page257of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Goodman shares traded at 67.5¢ ahead of the trading halt this week, slightly above the original offer
price.
Wilmar is controlled by a Malaysian billionaire whose nephew, Kuok Khoon Hong, has been a key
player. First Pacific is headed by Indonesian tycoon Anthony Salim.The share purchase agreements
with Ellertson and Perpetual, which would result in the sale of a 4.8 per cent stake to Wilmar and First
Pacific, plus the rights to a further 5 per cent, were conditional on the board agreeing to the deal. This
would allow Wilmar and First Pacific to lift their combined holding from 10.1 per cent to 19.9 per cent.
Key points Board agrees to recommend shareholders accept 70¢ a share offer. Wilmar and First
Pacific had threatened to walk away from deal by 8pm Friday.

CO
IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

fdgl : Goodman Fielder Ltd
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp : Consumer Goods
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | c184 : Joint Ventures | cacqu : Acquisitions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140516ea5h0001c

Page258of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.