Qantas takes swing at market share critics

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Qantas takes swing at market share critics

Jamie Freed
615 words
24 January 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
15
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Qantas Airways will not back down from its target of a 65 per cent share of the domestic aviation
market because doing so would be like "waving the white flag", says chief financial officer Gareth
Evans.

Investors and analysts have begun to question whether Qantas should maintain such a hard line in
the sand on market share given the airline's weakened financial state amid strong competition from
Virgin Australia Holdings.

BT Investment Management analyst Sondal Bensan this week said he did not believe Qantas needed
to keep "strictly" to the 65 per cent market share target. BT is the fourth-largest shareholder in
Qantas, with a 5.18 per cent stake.

In addition, the competition regulator last year began an investigation into potential misuse of market
power as a result of the target.

But in an opinion piece published in Friday's edition of The Sydney Morning Herald, Mr Evans
stridently defended the airline's strategy, saying that dumping the market share target would lead to
Qantas abandoning its role in regional Australia and betraying the loyalty of its frequent flyers.

"Imagine someone saying Woolworths should start closing stores in response to the threat from
Coles," he said. "Anyone who advocates this kind of approach simply does not understand the way
business works. We plan to keep improving and strengthening our competitive advantages, not
walking away from them."

Mr Evans said the target was designed to give Qantas customers a market-leading choice of
destinations, frequencies and seats at the times when they want to travel. "It is prized by our
customers and it is a very real competitive advantage that allows us to maximise earnings even in the
toughest of market conditions," he said.

His comments come as Qantas undertakes a strategic review, in which it could decide to sell assets
such as a minority stake in its frequent flyer program or Jetstar. Qantas has forecast it will report a
pre-tax loss of up to $300 million in the first half and has flagged plans to slash 1000 jobs and cut
$2 billion of spending over three years.
Virgin has filled its coffers with $350 million, mostly from three major foreign airline shareholders, to
help its battle against Qantas. Virgin is now at least 77 per cent foreign owned. Qantas, which is
barred from majority foreign ownership, has sought government aid to level the playing field.

The government is considering a proposal to provide a standby credit facility backed by a government
guarantee for which Qantas would pay a fee. The deal would not guarantee the airline's existing debt
but it could help return Qantas to an investment grade credit rating by showing it has the
government's backing.

Page14of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Union leaders have suggested any government assistance should be dependent on the airline using
it to fund its Australian operations rather than grow its Jetstar joint ventures in Asia. Qantas and its
partners have yet to receive approval to launch Jetstar Hong Kong. In the meantime, up to seven
new A320 aircraft have been parked at Airbus's manufacturing base in Toulouse.
Mr Evans defended Qantas's investment in Jetstar's Asia arms, saying the total equity investment to
date was less than the outlay on a single A380.

"That's far less than the inflated figures tossed around by those who would rather scapegoat Jetstar –
the same people who seize on any setback experienced by these start-up ventures as the 'real issue'
facing Qantas," he said.

Mr Evans said the value of the airlines was already significantly higher than their foundation capital,
which UBS estimates at $270 million.

btivmn : BT Investment Management Ltd | vrbair : Virgin Australia Holdings Ltd | qntas : Qantas
Airways Ltd
i75 : Airlines | i7501 : Scheduled Passenger Airlines | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles |
i8150211 : Unit Trusts/Mutual Funds | iairtr : Air Transport | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv :
Investing/Securities | ilowair : Low Cost Airlines | itsp : Transportation/Shipping
c313 : Market Share | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c31 : Marketing | ncat : Content Types | nfact
: Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140123ea1o00042

CO

IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page15of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.