Business
China to Buy Stake in Namibia Uranium Mine; Deal With Australia's Paladin Energy Furthers
Beijing's Nuclear Ambitions
Rhiannon Hoyle

China to Buy Stake in Namibia Uranium Mine; Deal With Australia's Paladin Energy Furthers Beijing's Nuclear Ambitions

SE
HD

BY
WC 708 words
PD
ET
SN
SC WSJO
ED WSJ.com
LA
CY
LP

20 January 2014
12:59
The Wall Street Journal Online

English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

TD

SYDNEY—China National Nuclear Corp. agreed to buy a large stake in one of Africa's biggest uranium
mines, giving the state-owned power generator better access to cleaner-burning energy.
A unit of CNNC agreed to buy 25% of the Langer Heinrich operation in Namibia from Paladin Energy Ltd.,
the Australian uranium producer said Monday.

CNNC is one of China's largest generators of nuclear energy and has been rapidly expanding its number
of reactors as the world's No. 2 economy tries to reduce reliance on coal for its ballooning energy needs.
The US$190 million deal allows CNNC to buy a quarter of the Namibian mine's output at the prevailing
spot-market price—which can be cheaper than negotiated long-term contracts—with the option to buy
more at normal market rates. Paladin still will own the remaining 75% of Langer Heinrich.
China's leaders have stepped up efforts to introduce cleaner energy while penalizing polluters more
harshly after the heavy smog hit Beijing and other cities last year. Up to 80% of China's energy is
produced by burning coal.
China's tougher stand on pollution underscores concerns that environmental problems represent a
growing threat to economic prosperity and social stability—and a deviation from a growth-at-all-costs
philosophy that had been followed for years.
China has the largest pipeline of new nuclear power plants in the world. There are 20 reactors in
operation on the mainland and another 28 under construction, according to the World Nuclear Association,
an industry body.
"China has ambitious nuclear-electrification programs extending for decades into the future," Paladin said.
"Obtaining direct access to sufficient global uranium supply is an essential element for China to be able
to safeguard and grow this strategically important sector."
CNNC's director-in-general of the department of geology and mining, Du Yunbin, in a written statement
described the deal as mutually beneficial. CNNC couldn't be reached for further comment.

The agreement gives Paladin, which is based in Perth, Western Australia, much-needed cash. A sharp
decline in uranium prices since the Japanese nuclear-power crisis in early 2011 has contributed to losses
at the company.
Paladin in October said it was looking to sell a stake in Langer Heinrich to help repay debt, including a
US$300 million convertible bond due in 2015. The announcement came after Paladin reported a
US$420.9 million loss for the year through June, which widened from a loss of US$172.8 million the
previous year.
The world market for uranium hasn't yet recovered from the earthquake and tsunami that devastated
Japan's Fukushima Daiichi power plant, bringing the country's large nuclear industry to a halt. The crisis
also prompted countries such as Germany and France to consider reducing their reliance on nuclear
power. In the U.S., some utilities have abandoned plans for new plants.

Page163of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The spot price is US$35 a pound, near an eight-year low and around 50% below where it stood before the
disaster. Still, Paladin Chief Executive John Borshoff told reporters that he saw China, the Middle East,
Russia and India as a growth engine for nuclear power in coming years.
"The big positive is that the Chinese have returned to the uranium market to complete a new deal after a
hiatus of two years," said Simon Tonkin, a Perth-based analyst at Australian stockbroker Patersons. The
last uranium deal for China was when China Guangdong Nuclear Power Group Co., as it was then
called, bought Australia's Extract Resources Ltd. in 2012. The Paladin deal "could flow through to the
uranium price in the short term," Mr. Tonkin said.

The Langer Heinrich mine, with an anticipated two-decade life span, has been expanded twice since it
began producing in 2007. It is capable of producing 5.2 million pounds of uranium concentrate a year.
Paladin has said productivity improvements this year could help bring the level up to 5.7 million pounds.
Paladin said the deal with China Uranium Corp. is expected to gain approval from Chinese regulators by
midyear.

CO chinuc : China National Nuclear Corp. | palrs : Paladin Energy Limited
IN

i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i1610109 : Electric Power Generation - Nuclear | i224 : Non-ferrous Metals | imet
: Mining/Quarrying | iuran : Uranium Ore Mining | i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i16101 : Electric Power
Generation | i22 : Primary Metals | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | ieutil : Electric Utilities | iutil :
Utilities
c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News |
reqrmm : Suggested Reading Metals/Mining | cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr
: Suggested Reading Industry News
china : China | austr : Australia | namib : Namibia | africaz : Africa | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | souafrz : Southern Africa

NS

RE

IPD Asian Business News
PUB Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
AN

Document WSJO000020140120ea1k001b9

Page164of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.