(SWDLX) Ferret's Stock Watch: DULUXGROUP LIMITED

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

(SWDLX) Ferret's Stock Watch: DULUXGROUP LIMITED

1,044 words
20 May 2014
Ralph Wragg Australian Business News
AAPRAW
English
Copyright 2014 RWE AUSTRALIAN BUSINESS NEWS PTY LTD. All Rights Reserved.

PAINT MAKER'S EARNINGS CLIMB AFTER SOLID SALES GROWTH

Sydney - Tuesday - May 20: (RWE Aust Business News) -

DULUXGROUP (ASX:DLX) has turned in a solid profit performance for the half year and lifted interim
dividend. Ferret suggested the stock was prospective some time ago when the price was under $4.

Managing director Mr Patrick Houlihan said the latest result was driven by strong profitable sales growth
in largely positive Australian and NZ markets, the contribution of a full six months of Alesco earnings,
disciplined cost management and margin improvement initiatives.
The company yesterday reported a lift in net profit of 87.7pc to $59.997m in the six months ended
March 31 from $31.956m for the first half of last year.

Net profit before non-recurring items rose 33.6pc to $56.1m from $42.0m.

Operating revenue rose 16.5pc to $804.455m from $690.753m, assisted by six months' sales
contribution from the Alesco businesses compared with four months in the 2013 first half.

Sales from heritage DuluxGroup businesses grew 3.9pc in improving markets and sales in the Alesco
businesses grew 6.4pc (on a six-month pro forma basis) in mixed market conditions.

Earnings before interest and tax rose 58.9pc to $93.9m from $59.1m and before non-recurring items
were up 27.5pc to $90.8m from $71.2m.

Basic earnings per share were 16.2c, up from 8.8c.

Interim dividend has been increased from 8c to 10c, fully franked, payable on June 20 to shareholders
registered May 30.
Most lead indicators for Australia are now largely positive and we growth in New Zealand markets is
expected to continue.

Subject to economic conditions, and excluding non-recurring items, directors expect 2014 net profit to
be higher than the 2013 equivalent of $94.1m.

MD Houlihan said it was a really pleasing result.

"Both the heritage DuluxGroup businesses and the acquired Alesco businesses have delivered solid
earnings growth.

"At the same time we have fully integrated the new businesses, delivered synergies ahead of target, and
are well-placed to capture ongoing growth opportunities," he said.

"DuluxGroup's heritage businesses have continued to deliver strong results and earnings growth in
improving markets.

Page145of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."These businesses have a consistent track record of growth, despite mixed market conditions over the
last few years, and are well placed now that our core ANZ markets have largely returned to growth,"
said Mr Houlihan.

"The Alesco businesses have generally outperformed in mixed markets conditions, supported by some
market share gains and pricing initiatives, and by increased investment in marketing and sales
effectiveness.

"We have also restructured the businesses to reflect their end customer markets, and are beginning to
see the benefits of leveraging DuluxGroup capability."

SHARE PRICE MOVEMENTS

--------------------

Shares of DuluxGroup Ltd yesterday rose 3c to $5.76 Rolling high for the year is $5,77 and low $3.98.
Dividned is 17.5c to yield 3.04 per cent. Earnings per share is 21.10c while price earnings ratio is 27.30.
The company has 381 million shares on issue with a market cap of $1.2 billion.

In the half, DGL Camel revenue grew 2.3%, despite disposing of the Opel Woodcare business during
the period, assisted by foreign exchange translation benefits.

EBIT improved due to margin improvements and fixed cost savings.

Powder Coatings revenue and EBIT both grew, led by favourable conditions in New Zealand and mild
growth in the Australian market

There was a slowdown in the PNG economy and a lower Kina continues to impact the PNG results, with
a reduction in both revenue and EBIT.

Despite the result, the PNG business remains a profitable market leader in decorative paints.

South East Asia produced a flat EBIT result.

However, corporate costs were broadly in line with the prior year
Costs of fringe benefits tax relating to debt forgiveness on the close-out of the 2010 Long Term Equity
Incentive Scheme ($1.5M) and share matching costs of the Employee share Investment Plan ($0.9M)
were offset by further Alesco corporate cost synergies

Changes in accounting standards have impacted the accounting treatment of the Group'fs defined
benefit superannuation scheme (reflected in both periods)

Second half Corporate costs expected to be slightly higher than the first half, due to timing of spend.

BACKGROUND

----------

The Dulux Group is a manufacturer and marketer of products that protect, maintain and enhance the
spaces and places in which we live and work.
The company makes premium branded decorative paints, texture, protective and woodcare coatings
products.

Part of the Group includes Paints New Zealand which is NZs top marketer and manufacturer of premium
branded decorative paints, texture and woodcare coatings products.

Selleys Yates Australia is New Zealand's leading marketer and manufacturer of home improvement and
garden care products.

From household rooms transformed by the latest designer colours, to the ripe tomatoes in the garden, to
the latest in garage door design and technology, to the industrial coatings that protect landmark
infrastructure such as bridges and the construction chemicals that reinforce them.

Its brands have been woven into the fabric of the communities where we operate, helping consumers to
live better and more comfortable lives.

DuluxGroup employs about 3,800 people in Australia, New Zealand, Papua New Guinea, South-East
Asia and China.

Page146of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Its Operating SegmentsDuluxGroup consists of seven operating segments.

Paints Australia and Paints New Zealand comprise DLX s decorative business including the retail paint,
trade paint, Cabot's woodcare, Protective Coatings and Texture Coatings businesses. Brands include
Dulux, Berger, British Paints, Walpamur, Cabot's, Intergrain, Feast Watson, Berger, Levene and
AcraTex.

Garage Doors and Openers is a manufacturer and marketer of a range of garage doors for domestic
and commercial use as well as commercial and residential automatic openers under market leading
brands.

Cabinets Hardware and Architectural Hardware is Australia's supplier and distributor of premium
hardware and components to the cabinet and furniture making industry; the window door and glazing
industries and the niche industrial tape and insulation markets.

Other companies comprise Australia and New Zealand's marketer and manufacturer of powder and
industrial coatings, Dulux paints in Papua New Guinea and DuluxGroup's China and South-East Asia
businesses known as DGL International.

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

dlxgrl : DuluxGroup Limited
i25 : Chemicals | i2551 : Paints/Coatings | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | icnp : Consumer
Goods | ihimpro : Home Improvement Products
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
RWE Australian Business News Pty Ltd
Document AAPRAW0020140519ea5k002jq

Page147of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.