Follow QualityStocks on Twitter!

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Follow QualityStocks on Twitter!

2,354 words
29 July 2014
Middle East North Africa Financial Network (MENAFN)
MENAFI
English
Copyright 2014. Middle East North Africa Financial Network Inc.

(MENAFN - InvestorIdea)

Follow QualityStocks on Twitter!

Ideas get bigger when you share them...
July 8, 2014 (www.investorideas.com newswire) The equity markets are constantly moving and it is
imperative that an active trader can find out what is happening in real-time. Even if you aren't trading all
day long – it is important to stay on top of the latest-breaking news. That is why we created our Twitter
account just for you.

By following us at Twitter, you will be right on top of the action in the micro-cap and small-cap markets.
You will receive short alerts regarding stock movements, news releases, and our new "Ones to Watch."
Every week we send dozens of tweets to bring our followers the hottest stocks and headlines.

The news about the quality of our Twitter service has spread rapidly. As of today, we have more than
100,000 followers.

If you like to start following us, please visit our page at: http://www.twitter.com/QualityStocks

About QualityStocks

QualityStocks is committed to connecting subscribers with companies that have huge potential to
succeed in the short and long-term future. We offer several ways for investors to find, evaluate, and learn
more about investing in these companies.

Sign up for "The QualityStocks Daily Newsletter" at www.QualityStocks.net

The Quality Stocks Daily Blog http://blog.qualitystocks.net

The Quality Stocks Daily Videos http://videocharts.qualitystocks.net

The Quality Stocks "Ones to Watch" http://gotstocks.qualitystocks.net

Please see disclaimer on the QualityStocks website: http://disclaimer.qualitystocks.net
Armco Metals Holdings, Inc. (AMCO) Subsidiary Noted by China's Ministry of Industry and Information
Technology for Approved Scrap Steel Processing Operations

Today before the opening bell, Armco Metals announced its subsidiary Armco (Lianyungang) Renewable
Metals, Inc. was on a list of companies that have received approval for operation in the scrap steel
processing industry. The list of companies was published by China's Ministry of Industry and Information
Technology on June 16, 2014. It contains only 131 companies in total and signifies the final step in
Armco Metals' attainment of approval for entering into China's scrap steel processing industry by the
ministry.

Since September 2012, the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology came up with a set of
stringent policies binding across many company facets as necessary standards for a company to enter
into China's scrap steel processing industry. Known as the "Standards for Entering the Scrap Steel

Page82of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Processing Industry", these standards include policies for corporate layout, construction requirements,
scale, technology and equipment, product quality, energy consumption and resource utilization,
environmental protection, training of personnel, production safety, occupational health, social
responsibility, supervision, and management. In 2013, Armco (Lianyungang) Renewable Metals attained
Model Scrap Processing and Distribution Center" status from the Chinese Scrap Application Association,
and earlier in 2014, it attained ministry authorization for market entry.
Armco Metals sees this as a company milestone because of the small number of companies that have
been noted to be capable of operating within the policy guidelines. The Chinese government has been
pushing for strengthened policies regarding efficiency and environmental responsibility, and Armco
Metals is strategically positioned for taking advantage of those policy shifts. The policy shift toward
environmental responsibility is forecasted to help promote scrap metal as a market alternative to iron ore
for production purposes. At present, scrap steel usage in the Chinese steel industry is only about 8%, or
approximately one-seventh of the scrap steel usage in the U.S. and Europe.

Kexuan Yao, Chairman and CEO of Armco Metals Holdings, stated, "We continue to see progress at our
Renewable Metals subsidiary as we work to position our Company for the future. Our efforts have
resulted in this important inclusion in the list of approved operators that we believe will pay big dividends
down the road as the Government looks to increase industrial efficiency while reducing pollution. China's
scrap industry has been slow to develop due to many producers opting to use less costly and more
pollutive production methods. As the government implements these new initiatives, we see steel
producers moving to models that more closely resemble that of the U.S. and Europe which should lead
to significant need for scrap steel produced by the small circle of companies who are approved by the
government to operate in this industry."

For more information, visit: www.armcometals.com

About QualityStocks

QualityStocks is committed to connecting subscribers with companies that have huge potential to
succeed in the short and long-term future. We offer several ways for investors to find, evaluate, and learn
more about investing in these companies.

Sign up for "The QualityStocks Daily Newsletter" at www.QualityStocks.net

The Quality Stocks Daily Blog http://blog.qualitystocks.net

The Quality Stocks Daily Videos http://videocharts.qualitystocks.net

The Quality Stocks "Ones to Watch" http://gotstocks.qualitystocks.net

Please see disclaimer on the QualityStocks website: http://disclaimer.qualitystocks.net

Innocent Inc. (INCT) Appoints Scott Davis as Inaugural Advisory Council Member
Innocent Inc., a development stage oil and gas exploration and production company, announced that it
has appointed Scott Davis as the inaugural member of the company's newly formed advisory council.

Mr. Davis is an owner of R. D. Davis & Associates, LLC and also manages the Houston Division – a land
company headquartered in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. Additionally, he manages all day-to-day
operations of 110 field brokers. Davis' experience in multiple basins gives him familiarity with the local
landowners, current operators and potential competitors in each basin.

Notably, Mr. Davis has experience and a record of leasing in many unconventional resource plays. He
has personally leased, negotiated and managed over 1,000,000 acres in the Barnett Shale, Permian
Basin, Texas Panhandle, Southern Oklahoma (Woodford), Granite Wash (Western OK and Kansas),
Illinois Basin and Eagle Ford. Mr. Davis has managed teams of more than one hundred workers while
implementing land strategies in the field for Devon, ConocoPhillips, XTO, Samson, Cimarex, and other
E&P companies. Mr. Davis has been involved in a variety of oil & gas ventures across Oklahoma, Texas,
Illinois and Kansas. Further, he specializes in dealing with the regulatory agencies of these states.

Innocent's CEO Patrick Johnson commented, "Our newly formed advisory council will allow us to benefit
from assembling a world-class oil and gas advisory team to identify, review and advise our management
team on select opportunities. We are very pleased Mr. Davis accepted our invitation and we look forward
to working with him in our transformation of Innocent."
Innocent Inc. is a development stage oil and gas exploration and production company focused on
properties in North America. The company's business strategy involves minimizing the risk of

Page83of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.exploration through development of proved petroleum reserves, and expects to maximize profit through
strategic acquisition and liquidation of selected oil and gas properties. Innocent Inc. partners with
industry experts in this agreement and they will provide the technical guidance and field management
experience.
For more information on the company, visit www.innocentinc.com

About QualityStocks

QualityStocks is committed to connecting subscribers with companies that have huge potential to
succeed in the short and long-term future. We offer several ways for investors to find, evaluate, and learn
more about investing in these companies.

Sign up for "The QualityStocks Daily Newsletter" at www.QualityStocks.net

The Quality Stocks Daily Blog http://blog.qualitystocks.net

The Quality Stocks Daily Videos http://videocharts.qualitystocks.net

The Quality Stocks "Ones to Watch" http://gotstocks.qualitystocks.net

Please see disclaimer on the QualityStocks website: http://disclaimer.qualitystocks.net

Banjo & Matilda, Inc. (BANJ) Attains New Wholesale Sales Record

Today before the opening bell, emerging Australian lifestyle brand Banjo & Matilda reported its
attainment of record wholesale sales of $897,000, a 63% increase in sales over last year's pre-fall and
pre-winter seasons. The Australian lifestyle company also reported an increase in the number of retail
outlets stocking its fashion merchandise. As of June 26, 2014, the company's product selections were
available in 129 stores, up 617% from 18 stores in the same season of last year.

Among the retailers offering its fashion merchandise selection are major department and specialty
premium stores including Net-a-porter; ShopBop; Intermix; Neiman Marcus; Harvey Nichols; Kadawe in
Berlin; Trilogy in UK; and many others.

Ben Macpherson, Chief Executive Officer, stated, "As expected our sales continue to increase as
retailers around the world adopt the brand and grow our distribution. Ultimately the rise in wholesale
distribution through premium retailers is a result of consumer demand for our ‘lux casual' lifestyle
products and brand. We expect this momentum to continue as we build and develop a global network of
premier retail partners that carry Banjo & Matilda."

Banjo & Matilda's pre-fall fashion product line was made available in stores as well as online on June 30,
2014. A rapidly growing Australian lifestyle company, Banjo & Matilda is best known for its work as a
designer, producer, and marketer of premium contemporary woman's knitwear. Having launched its
standout knitwear collection in 2008, the company is quickly gaining traction as an emerging fashion
luxury brand.

For more information about Banjo & Matilda, please visit: www.banjoandmatilda.com

About QualityStocks

QualityStocks is committed to connecting subscribers with companies that have huge potential to
succeed in the short and long-term future. We offer several ways for investors to find, evaluate, and learn
more about investing in these companies.

Sign up for "The QualityStocks Daily Newsletter" at www.QualityStocks.net

The Quality Stocks Daily Blog http://blog.qualitystocks.net

The Quality Stocks Daily Videos http://videocharts.qualitystocks.net

The Quality Stocks "Ones to Watch" http://gotstocks.qualitystocks.net

Please see disclaimer on the QualityStocks website: http://disclaimer.qualitystocks.net
International Stem Cell Corp. (ISCO) Enters Agreement with $1 Billion Global Pharmaceutical Company
International Stem Cell Corp., a biotech company developing novel stem cell-based therapies,
announced this morning that it has entered into a twelve-month research agreement with Rohto
Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., a global Japanese pharmaceutical company that develops new technology for

Page84of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.the medical and cosmetics markets with approximately $1.3 billion in consolidated annual sales.
Founded in 1899, Rohto today has products available in more than 150 countries.

Rohto has agreed to evaluate stem cell-derived human cells owned and provided by ISCO in a number
of pre-clinical animal models. If the research is successful and the parties agree on remaining terms, it is
anticipated that a definitive license agreement will be signed at the end of this research agreement.
Certain key terms of such a license agreement, including the target disease areas and intellectual
property rights, have already been defined in the research agreement.
"We are delighted to have such an outstanding company work with us, and we believe that the potential
for this agreement is significant," stated Dr. Simon Craw, EVP of Business Development at ISCO. "Under
the terms of the agreement Rohto will begin working with our cells immediately and if the program is
successful we may move to the next stage, signing a definitive license agreement. Such an agreement
would significantly enhance our standing in a number of ways. Firstly, having diligently built up our
scientific strength and patent portfolio over the last few years, it would both validate our research as well
as our ability to generate licensing revenue from our proprietary platform. Secondly, by expanding the
use of our technology into new areas beyond that which we can address alone, it would add value to the
Company."

Under the agreement ISCO will provide a number of differentiated human cells derived from the
company's collection of pluripotent human stem cells known as UniStemCell™. The Company has a
track record of successfully demonstrating that human cells derived from UniStemCell™ are effective in
animal models of various diseases and have the potential to be used as a basis for developing human
therapies. ISCO has adopted this approach successfully with a number of academic collaborators in the
past.

For more information on International Stem Cell Corp., please visit www.internationalstemcell.com

About QualityStocks

QualityStocks is committed to connecting subscribers with companies that have huge potential to
succeed in the short and long-term future. We offer several ways for investors to find, evaluate, and learn
more about investing in these companies.

Sign up for "The QualityStocks Daily Newsletter" at www.QualityStocks.net

The Quality Stocks Daily Blog http://blog.qualitystocks.net

The Quality Stocks Daily Videos http://videocharts.qualitystocks.net

The Quality Stocks "Ones to Watch" http://gotstocks.qualitystocks.net

Please see disclaimer on the QualityStocks website: http://disclaimer.qualitystocks.net

More Info:

This news is published on the Investorideas.com Newswire and its syndicated partner network

Get free news alerts: Sign up here

Published at the Investorideas.com Newswire - Big ideas for Global Investors

Disclaimer/ Disclosure:The Investorideas.com newswire is a third party publisher of news and research
as well as creates original content as a news source. Original content created by investorideas is
protected by copyright laws other than syndication rights. Investorideas is a news source on Google
news and Linkedintoday plus hundreds of syndication partners. Our site does not make
recommendations for purchases or sale of stocks or products. Nothing on our sites should be construed
as an offer or solicitation to buy or sell products or securities. All investment involves risk and possible
loss of investment. This site is currently compensated by featured companies, news submissions,
content marketing and online advertising. Contact each company directly for press release questions.
Disclosure is posted on each release if required but otherwise the news was not compensated for and is
published for the sole interest of our readers. More disclaimer info:
http://www.investorideas.com/About/Disclaimer.asp

BC Residents and Investor Disclaimer : Effective September 15 2008 - all BC investors should review all
OTC and Pink sheet listed companies for adherence in new disclosure filings and filing appropriate
documents with Sedar. Read for more info: http://www.bcsc.bc.ca/release.aspxid=6894. Global investors
must adhere to regulations of each country.

Page85of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB Middle East North Africa Financial Network Inc
AN

Document MENAFI0020140729ea7t00019

Page86of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.