Empowering the local coffee farming community

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business Agenda
Empowering the local coffee farming community

1,084 words
10 November 2014
Manila Bulletin
MABULL
English
(c) 2014 Manila Bulletin Publishing Corp. All rights reserved.

For Marinela Guerrero-Trinidad, CEO of The Cravings Group (TCG), having Australia's well-known
specialty coffee brand in their restaurant chains is not just offering Filipino coffee lovers refreshing coffee
choices, it is also the company's way of helping local farmers get more out of their produce.

TCG announced the partnership late last October, with Di Bella's owner, Australia's “Coffee King” himself
Phillip Di Bella, explaining how the two companies found the “right cultural fit”-from one of Trinidad's
educational trips for her employees to Melbourne where she met Di Bella's people-and started working
together for more than a year to finally make the collaboration possible.

Through the joint venture, the Di Bella Coffee line is now exclusively available in all TCG restaurant
chains, including Cravings, Epicurious, Lucia Ristorante, Lombardi's, C2 Classic Cuisine, B&P, The
Blackboard by Chef Michel, The Coffee Beanery, as well as its existing hospitality companies.

Aside from this, the partnership includes the education and training of TCG employees and, more
importantly, of local farmers as well.

[caption id="attachment_205806" align="alignright" width="160"] Phillip Di Bella, founder and managing
director of Di Bella Coffee[/caption]

[caption id="attachment_205809" align="alignright" width="160"] Marinela Guerrero-Trinidad, CEO of The
Cravings Group[/caption]

Helping the industry bounce back

Jose Antonio Magtibay, TCG's chief finance officer, shares that there is a gap in demand and supply of
coffee beans in the country. He cites the decades of the '70s and the '80s when the price of coffee
dropped. “As a result, a lot of coffee farmers shifted their crops to other varieties [and] that dragged on,”
he says. Right now, Mindanao accounts for 70 percent of the 26,000 metric ton annual production in the
country.

Magtibay adds that the current production of coffee beans is basically being captured by one specific
company. It's not surprising then that the latter is also the biggest producer of coffee, he says, “primarily
because they go under joint venture, they provide farmers the funding and training.” As a result of this, a
lot of independent coffee roasters or users have actually experienced the drop of local coffee supply. “We
are actually forced to buy coffee at a higher price. The coffee that we have right now is coming from
Vietnam,” he informs.

The Philippine coffee industry stands to gain in partnering with Di Bella, says Trinidad. “Di Bella is very
intent in supporting the Cravings Group educate and train local farmers with ethical, sustainable
coffee-growing practices. By learning and adapting such renowned leadership, excellence and expertise,
Filipino coffee farmers will have the opportunity to learn and eventually harvest the best-quality,
locally-grown beans, which in turn gives Filipinos the best cup experience,” she adds.

Finding the perfect match

Page279of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.TCG and Di Bella share the same story of success. Both of them started from their own backyards-the
mother-daughter tandem cooking in their house with a French oven, and Di Bella roasting coffee beans in
his garage. Both are staunch believers of education and sustainability, too.
Di Bella began his journey in 2002, dreaming of building a company that was all about the “coffee
experience”. He says he envisioned a company that would bridge the gap between crops to cups. He
points out the significance of understanding the whole process of preparing coffee from the moment the
beans are planted, all the way to a cup of the caffeinated drink.
“The very notion of the Di Bella name and brand is understanding what farmers are doing that will affect
the cup. The one constant process along the way is people. Farmers are people; coffee roasters are
people; coffee shop owners are people; those who will buy and enjoy the coffee are people,” says Di
Bella. The company also does something not a lot of business owners do-they send back their products
to the farmers to let them taste the coffee, even giving them coffee makers and teaching them how to
make coffee.
He adds that what makes the partnership with Cravings unique is how Trinidad's company understands
the 'crop to cup' philosophy more than anyone else. Those familiar with TCG would know that at the core
of its operations is sustainability, something that Di Bella Coffee also possesses. “Usually in the coffee
market, there is a middle man. For Di Bella, he goes directly to the coffee farms; he talks to the farmers
and then negotiates with them and then he is willing to pay higher than the fair trade price,” informs Emi
Pascual, TCG marketing and branding consultant. They expect the same thing to happen to our Filipino
coffee farmers.

Brewing the right blend

The way Filipinos enjoy their coffee are not very different from how Aussies take them-they like it sweet
but strong. But Di Bella says they are open to changing how the market likes it.

“When you've got the experience, you can do anything [but] we work with the culture from our end. We
don't do it our way and be arrogant. We blend with the culture,” he says. For the Philippine market, they
are starting off with salted caramel, toffee, hazelnut flavors. “We understand that coffee here is more
milk-based.”
The company will also bring in more changes on the production/preparation point-from espresso
machines, to pressers to plungers. “We want the whole five-senses thing,” he says, referring to how TCG
will present its Di Bella specialty coffee range to its customers, starting off with showing how the beans
are roasted in front of the customers. More importantly, he says, they want people to “understand the
traceability, this piece of art that connects you to that cup of coffee.”
Di Bella has been expanding for the past years and has stores in India, China, New Zealand. They just
opened one in Singapore after launching in Manila. He says the Philippines is going to be “one of our
best” because of the quality of partners that they have here. We're looking forward to a bright future,” he
says.

TCG President Annie Guerrero wants to look at the whole partnership as going full circle. “It's a long
journey and it's unfolding now. We've been in a long search for that perfect coffee experience since 1994
and I'm so happy [we've found the match],” she ends.

CO
IN

NS
RE

diblcf : Di Bella Coffee Company
i0100137 : Coffee Growing | icoffee : Coffee Products | i0 : Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | i41 :
Food/Beverages/Tobacco | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods | inonal : Non-alcoholic
Beverages/Drinks
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | cpartn : Partnerships/Collaborations | c11 : Plans/Strategy
phlns : Philippines | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
Business Agenda

IPD
PUB Manila Bulletin Publishing Corp
AN

Document MABULL0020141109eaba0000h

Page280of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.