Nickel's run rekindles sale hope

Nickel's run rekindles sale hope

The Australian

HD
CR
WC 630 words
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

16 March 2014
23:00
theAustralian.com.au
NLAUSW
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

TD

SURGING nickel prices have boosted interest in a planned sale by Chinese-controlled MMG of its
mothballed Avebury nickel mine.

Nickel's price surge -- brought on by Indonesia's export ban on laterite nickel ores -- has already prompted
BHP Billiton to put out the feelers on a sale of its West Australian nickel business, valued at up to $1
billion, because of the strategy of chief executive Andrew Mackenzie to focus on the "four pillars" of iron
ore, coal, copper and petroleum.

Unlike the rest of the metals, nickel has started the year strongly, rising 13 per cent to a 12-month high of
$US7.14 a pound. The rise for the stainless steel ingredient is a response to the tightening in supplies
caused by Indonesia's mineral ore export ban taking effect in mid-January.

The ban is an attempt to compel more value-adding to Indonesia's mineral exports through the
development of onshore processing operations. The country is the world's biggest exporter of nickel and
is the main supplier of low-grade nickel laterite ores to China's nickel pig iron industry.

MMG chief executive Andrew Michelmore told The Australian that a restart of Avebury was not part of
MMG's plans, leaving the company open to offers for it.

"Our issue is that its size doesn't fit in our portfolio, so it is a case of finding the group for which it becomes
an important asset in their growth plans," he said. There had been "quite a bit of interest" in Avebury and
people had been looking "to see how it fits in their portfolios".
MMG's hunt for a buyer of Avebury comes as its parent company is in talks to buy GlencoreXstrata's
$US6bn ($6.7bn) Las Bambas copper development in Peru, the sale of which -- or other nominated
copper assets -- was part of Beijing's approval last year of Glencore's merger with Xstrata.
MMG -- the Hong Kong-listed and Australian-managed offshoot of China Minmetals Corporation --
bought Avebury and other assets from OZ Minerals for $1.7bn in June 2009.

Avebury, near Zeehan, was opened in August 2008 at a cost of $880m, only to be mothballed in
December 2008 when nickel prices fell below $US4.50 a pound in response to the collapse in demand
due to the global financial crisis.

Analysts say Avebury needs nickel prices to hold above $US9 a pound to justify its reopening, with the
recent weakness in the Australian dollar aiding its cause.

Avebury is a nickel sulphide operation that can produce highly sought after nickel concentrates grading
more than 20 per cent-plus nickel, which is smelted and refined into 99.99 per cent nickel metal, used
mainly in the production of stainless steel.
The rise of nickel pig iron in China, based on laterite ore from Indonesia and The Philippines, was a
response to the spike in nickel prices to more than $US24 a pound by May 2007, and it represents a
cheaper alternative to pure nickel for the production of stainless steel.
But the rapid uptake of the process in China has effectively introduced a cap on nickel prices, with the
nickel pig iron producers turning up their production when nickel prices reach about $US10 a pound and
turning them down at prices below that level. That is one of the reasons why BHP is not interested in
having a long-term presence in the industry.

Page79of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.UBS says if BHP's nickel operations in WA were sold off, the proceeds would help BHP to cut its debt to
$US25bn by the end of the 2014 financial year. It says this would increase the probability of BHP
announcing a buyback program in August.

CO bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | orieml : MMG Limited | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC | cminmc : China Minmetals

Corporation | imreht : Inner Mongolia Baotou Steel Rare-Earth (Group) Hi-Tech Co Ltd | lawspr :
Minmetals Land Limited
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2114 : Copper Ore/Nickel Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 :
Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i224 : Non-ferrous
Metals | i2245 : Aluminum

IN

NS mnonfr : Non-ferrous Metals | mnickl : Nickel Markets | m14 : Commodity Markets | m142 : Metals Markets

| mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E
Exclusion Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB News Ltd.
AN

Document NLAUSW0020140316ea3g000mf

Page80of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.