Corporate: Chinese developer Chiwayland heads Down Under as business back home gets tougher

HD

BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Corporate: Chinese developer Chiwayland heads Down Under as business back home gets
tougher
By Frankie Ho
1,143 words
18 August 2014
The Edge Singapore
EDGESI
English
(c) 2014 The Edge Publishing Pte Ltd. All Rights Reserved.

Qian Jianrong wasted no time getting down to business after shares in his company made their trading
debut in Singapore on Aug 6. Following a jam-packed day of interacting with shareholders, business
associates and officials from the Singapore Exchange, the co-founder of Chiwayland International took
off the next morning to Brisbane, where the Shanghai-based property developer had just set up a joint
venture, one that marks its maiden foray outside China.

In business since 2002, Chiwayland has been eyeing opportunities overseas for about a year now.
Having made a name for itself in China’s Yangtze River Delta region, which encompasses major cities
such as Shanghai, Suzhou and Wuxi, it now sees fit to take its first step abroad.

“We just do not want to put all our eggs in one basket,” Qian, 48, Chiwayland’s executive chairman, tells
The Edge Singapore. The need to diversify has probably never been more acute for the company than
now, with China’s housing market increasingly under stress.
A slew of government measures to rein in runaway property prices and a broad slowdown in the world’s
second-largest economy have given Chinese developers nothing but gloom in recent times.
Shanghai-based Shui On Land, for one, said this past week that its bottom line for 1H2014 might shrink
by about 25% y-o-y. Its results are due end-August.

‘Attractive’ returns
While it might seem counterintuitive for Chiwayland to head Down Under given that China’s economic
slowdown is also taking a toll on Australia, a key supplier of natural resources to the Chinese in recent
years, Qian is hopeful of prospects in Brisbane. “We think the returns from Australia will be quite
attractive.” He has in mind an internal rate of return of 25% to 30%.
Through an equal joint venture with Australian developer Property Solutions, Chiwayland will work on
three residential projects, costing a total of A$160 million ($185 million). The developments are slated
to be completed between 4Q2015 and 2Q2017, and are expected to yield a total gross floor area of
32,000 sq m. The projects are targeted at buyers from China, among others.
Chiwayland, which came to market in Singapore through a $399-million reverse takeover of R H
Energy, will bankroll its share of the project cost using internal funds and debt. As at Dec 31 last year, it
had RMB383 million ($78 million) in cash on its balance sheet.

Besides Brisbane, Qian is also eyeing opportunities in Sydney, which he expects Chiwayland to
penetrate later this year. “In Sydney, we are still seeing projects being fully sold within a day of their
launch. This shows buyers’ appetite is still there,” he says.
“I don’t think the property market in Australia is going to be saturated by developments, whether from
local or foreign developers, any time soon. In Sydney and Brisbane, the supply of homes has not caught
up with demand in recent years. I think there is room for supply to catch up. Based on our own studies,
this catch-up process will take at least five years. So, the current situation is actually quite healthy, from
a developer’s point of view.”
Holding steady in China

Page131of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Chiwayland may also venture into London and markets in the US, Qian says, although its immediate
priority is Australia. In the meantime, the company is not slowing down in China, where it has yet to cut
its selling prices despite the tougher environment.
As it is, bank lending in China has fallen substantially as the housing market weakens, reducing
demand for loans. According to new official data, Chinese banks issued RMB385.2 billion in loans last
month, down from RMB1.08 trillion in June.
“The property market in China is still a viable one,” Qian maintains. “Over the past six months, China’s
housing market has been rebalancing because of various cooling measures put in place by the
government, such that prices in certain areas have come down.

“But in the last month or so, Beijing started to ease certain restrictions. In the past, each family could
buy only one unit or two. Now, this restriction has been lifted in many cities, although it still remains in
tier-one cities like Beijing and Shanghai.”
Despite the jitters developers are facing, Qian takes comfort in the longer-term outlook. “China is
undergoing a rapid economic transformation. Every year, the number of people moving from rural areas
to cities is huge and they need to buy homes. The current supply of new homes is still far less than
demand.”
In the meantime, as a way to grow its top line, Chiwayland continues to work on what is known in China
as fixed-price housing development. In this market, it develops public homes and sells them at prices
determined by the government. For its fixed-price homes in Suzhou, any units not sold within a year or
two of the project’s completion will be bought by the local government.

But while this business segment gives some stability to Chiwayland’s revenue, profit margins tend to be
lower than those for other commercial projects. The group’s overall gross margins grew from 19.2% in
2011 to 25.1% in 2012, but fell to 12.2% last year. The decline, despite an increase in revenue last year,
was mainly a result of an absence of contributions from higher-margin developments.
Besides residential developments, Chiwayland also works on office and commercial properties, and
even educational institutions. In fact, it was years of working in the education industry in China that gave
Qian and a few of his friends the idea to jointly pursue a business in developing schools. That eventually
led to the founding of Chiwayland in 2002. It was only two years later that the company took on its first
residential development project.
Despite its 12-year track record, the group will need to do more to convince investors of its merits. As
part of the reverse takeover, it carried out a compliance placement of shares at 60 cents apiece to meet
SGX’s shareholding spread and distribution requirements. The stock has yet to close above that price
though. It ended at 43.5 cents on its first day of trading and slipped to as low as 37.5 cents over the
following sessions.

As far as Qian is concerned, however, the pullback matters little. “What’s more important is the business
of the company. I am more concerned about making sure we do our job well. I am not too bothered by
any short-term weakness in our share price.” Sinway Investment, a vehicle he controls, is the biggest
shareholder of Chiwayland, with a stake of 80%.

NS
RE

PUB
AN

ereal : Real Estate Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News
china : China | austr : Australia | singp : Singapore | brisbn : Brisbane | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia
Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China |
devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | nswals
: New South Wales | queensl : Queensland | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
The Edge Publishing Pte Ltd
Document EDGESI0020140819ea8i00005

Page132of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.