Co-op’s prime cut

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

RURAL
Co-op’s prime cut

Shan Goodwin
498 words
6 November 2014
The Land
FTLAND
22
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

AUSTRALIA'S only farmer-owned beef processor, the Northern Co-operative Meat Company
NCMC, has posted a record before-tax surplus of $25.9 million for the 2013-14 financial year.

This is on the back of a drought-induced spike in cattle supply and improved operational
performance.

It's a huge jump from the previous financial year's $3.9m and has been described as a
"bittersweet" result by the co-operative's chairman John Seccombe, given the poor livestock prices
producer members have had to wear.

The NCMC, a service abattoir at Casino owned by 1500 livestock producer shareholders, held its
annual general meeting on Monday.

The record profit will fund major efficiency-improvement works, led by $25m to $30m on upgrades
to cold store facilities to include freezing and chilling, enabling all product to be frozen on site it is
currently transferred to Brisbane or Grafton.
A boiler will also be replaced, knocking box lead-up ramp work undertaken to further improve
market access, animal welfare and worker safety and $7m in the next 18 months will go to waste
water treatment.

Throughput across the business was up 33 per cent on the beef floor year-on-year and 3pc on the
veal floor, which is now operating at 95pc capacity up from 40pc just two and a half years ago,
chief executive Simon Stahl said.
That volume of veal comes courtesy of the purchase of a new veal marketing business, Ramsey
Meats.

The NCMC services a range of kill customers, from traditional beef categories and veal to Wagyu,
involving up to 50 operators, ten of whom are major customers.

The direct consignment incentive program paid for livestock purchased by an operator from a
producer member paid out $540,000, up $70,000 on the previous financial year.

Mr Stahl said it was expected cattle numbers would become much tighter in the next 12 months,
particularly if northern summer rain comes.

"We are confident operators will have the supply of cattle they need, either via their own cattle
operations or solid relationships they've built with suppliers," he said.

"On the veal side, we are focusing on ensuring we can create demand for the end product so when
restockers re-enter markets, we will have the money to pay more for veal."
To that end, the domestic marketing campaign would combine with increased volume into China
expected to grow by 50pc in the next year.

Page125of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."Our view is we've seen the worst of low veal prices and the tops of what we've come through will
become the new low price by as early as the first half of next year," Mr Stahl said.
However, more competition in veal processing would not necessarily lead to increased returns to
producers, he said.

"It's a limited market in Australia that's why we are focusing on growing it."

RE
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FTLAND0020141105eab600020

Page126of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.