TITLE DEEDS Griffiths rewrites her Palmy script INSIDE STORY visits Coogee

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Domain
TITLE DEEDS Griffiths rewrites her Palmy script INSIDE STORY visits Coogee

LUCY MACKEN
1,369 words
16 August 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
6
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

INSIDE STORY visits Coogee

Anthony Bell, of accounting and yachting fame, has sold his former Coogee bachelor pad for well in
excess of its $2 million-plus guide.

The now Watsons Bay-based husband of celebrity Kelly Landry, and more recently father to Thea and
Charlize, bought the three-bedroom penthouse on Brook Street for just shy of $1.5 million in 2000.

The founder of chief of Bell Partners traded Coogee in for Bondi Beach in 2006 when he bought his
$7,725,000 penthouse in The Bondi, snapping up the adjoining penthouse in 2010 for $9 million.

Since he and Landry have settled into their Watsons Bay waterfront home, for which they paid $12.5
million a year ago, Bell has been consolidating his real estate, offering the Bondi Beach mega spread
for some $15 million with McGrath's James Dack and Steven Chen, and handing the job of selling his
Coogee spread to old school mate Adrian Bo, also of McGrath.

Most recently home to former Sydney Swan great Brad Seymour and his businesswoman wife
Melissa, records show property investor Xanthi Papantoniou paid $2.75 million for the Coogee
penthouse, prompting the sale of her long-held family home nearby on Rainbow Street for $2.2
million in June.

TITLE DEEDS

Griffiths rewrites her Palmy script

Rachel Griffiths and her husband are selling their sandstone cottage to find something larger nearby.

Rachel Griffiths and her artist husband Andrew Taylor are selling their Palm Beach retreat and plan to
eventually trade up their holiday digs to something with more land nearby.

Speaking exclusively to Title Deeds, Griffiths likened her charming sandstone cottage to her own Petit
Trianon, the cottage of Queen Marie-Antoinette where she retreated from the rigours of court life in the
1770s.

"It's amazing to see the impression this place has on friends. Movie stars and incredibly rich people
with these huge mansions come here and are blown away by this little place. It's as if they crave that
simpler life, which is really what this place is about, except with the best, high-tech kitchen."
And ocean views, which also won't hurt the $2.5million sale price.

Title Deeds first heard whisper of the off-market listing in late May, which has only now been
confirmed by LJ Hooker Palm Beach's David Edwards.

Page276of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Griffiths is only the second owner of the original two-bedroom cottage, having bought it in 1998 for
$735,000 from returned serviceman Fred Lyons and his wife Dulcie, who built it in the 1950-60s.
Beautifully refurbished in 2009 by architect Robert Brown, it and the neighbouring retreat of architect
Philip Cox are accessed through Annie Wyatt Reserve.

"We could have just bulldozed it to build something bigger, as so many do, but the history of these old
places is so important. These homes are full of happy memories of gloriously long summer days, and
you can't build that. You don't get that for new."

Griffiths stressed she and her family are not cutting ties with Palm Beach, and plan to return their to
usual summer stomping ground at Christmas. The only question being which house will be hosting
them.

- - -

A closer look at the dealings of David Edwards' dealings of reveals a few interesting sales of late,
including a recent weekender purchase on Barrenjoey Road for $2,535,000 by Mosman-based
Amanda and Patrick Robinson, chief executive of rag trader Gazal Group.
And settlement records reveal what is so far the suburb's highest result this year at $7.6 million, again
through Edwards, for the Iluka Road waterfront of Frank and Amber Elsworth.

The Elsworths haven't had to move far, having recently sold their home along the shoreline for $7.5
million to former Arrium chief Geoff Plummer.

- - -

Property developer Vera Boyarsky is downsizing from the family's long-held, Tudor-style home in
Bellevue Hill, listing it with hopes of more than $8 million.
Boyarsky heads up Anka Property with her son Andrew, the company that was founded by her
husband Alex in 1968 and takes credit for the Liberty Grove development in Homebush and more
recently Union Balmain in Rozelle.

The 1920s-era residence with indoor pool and self-contained guest studio has been sympathetically
updated over the past 30 years it has been the Boyarsky family home. Set on 923 square metres, it
goes to auction on September 4 through Elliott Placks and Ashley Bierman, of Ray White Double Bay.
The listing coincides with the sale late last week by Elliott Placks and Dan White of the Point Piper
estate of Charles and Maria Scarf for more than $30 million.
Neither agent would comment on the sale, so only settlement will reveal if it beats the $32.4 million
non-waterfront record paid in the stronger market of 2008 for the former mansion Craig-y-Mor by
Chinese princeling Zeng Wei and his wife Jiang Mei.

- - -
Singer-songwriter Gin Wigmore looks like she's cut ties with Sydney judging by the recent sale of her
Enmore home. The New Zealand-born soulstress has pocketed $785,000 for her one-bedroom
cottage within days of listing it.
Ed Tancred, of Raine & Horne Petersham, declined to comment, but the cool first home purchase
was by Robbie and Ashley Fidler, the latter of whom is a personal assistant at real estate agents
BresicWhitney.
Wigmore sold her Marrickville home last September for $1.2 million, and her Darlinghurst apartment
in 2011 for $575,000.

- - -

In Mosman, the Victorian Gothic-style mansion Allowah has sold. The 1881-era sandstone residence
of Citibank's Tim Robinson and his wife Kirstine was last quoted with a price guide of $8.5
million-plus. After it came up sold on the Domain website on Monday, word spread it had sold above
that level despite no comment from McGrath's Michael Coombs.

Shh!

Guess which recently appointed senior television executive looks set to trade up his designer digs?

Page277of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Guess which savvy supermodel is offering up her eastern suburbs pad?

Rock on in Castlecrag

Original rocker-turn-actor Andy Anderson and his lawyer wife Karen Ryder, of Baker and McKenzie,
are downsizing from their Castlecrag home given regular work and family commitments in LA and New
Zealand.
Known to '60s stalwarts as lead vocalist in The Missing Links before he starred as Jim Sullivan in The
Sullivans in the 70s, Anderson is best known recently for scoring best-actor accolades for his role in
Honk if you're Horny.

The recently rebuilt, contemporary family home with district views, flexibile floorplan and northerly rear
aspect goes to auction on September 11 for upwards of $2.3 million through Heidi King, of LJ Hooker
Castlecrag.

Funky Tama pad

Morris Symonds, founder and partner of Alceon, and his wife Di have put their funky Tamarama home
up for grabs with hopes of $4.7 million-plus.
Symonds bought the Silva Street property in 2009 for $2.2 million, the year before he co-founded the
investment and advisory firm with Trevor Loewensohn and Phil Green. Rebuilt in 2011 according to a
design by architect Rob Puflett with interiors by Katherine Norman and Caroline Quaine, and with
DA-approved for a third level, the four-bedder features both formal and informal living areas, ocean
views and a swimming pool. McGrath's Bethwyn Richards has the listing.

Hamptons on the Park

The Queens Park home of Walker Douglas co-founder and owner Bryan Weir and his wife Janette is
up for grabs at more than $3 million.

Weir, who is also on the board of LJ Hooker, bought the four-bedroom property in 2008 for a solid
$3.42 million from Sam Wagner, founder of accessories label Sambag, who had already put her
creative talent into renovating the Stanley Street property.

The freestanding, Hamptons-style home is set above a triple garage and comes with four bedrooms,
separate study and spacious open-plan living area. It goes to auction on September 10 through
Brighid Fitzsimons and Alexander Phillips, of Phillips Pantzer Donnelley.

IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

irreal : Residential Real Estate | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ireest
: Real Estate
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020140815ea8g0008a

Page278of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.