Building boom likely to hit the buffers

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Building boom likely to hit the buffers

Ben Potter
638 words
23 July 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
7
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Move over mining boom. Simeon Goldenberg, finance director of Icon Group, frets more about what
will replace the wave of Asian capital chasing Melbourne and Sydney apartments.
Asian "safe haven" buying, fuelled by new limits on buying property in China and Canada, is holding
up residential construction, despite a slowing economy and rising labour costs, he says.

"There's a lot of talk about what replaces the mining boom. Well, there's this Asian boom going on as
well, what's going to replace that?"

Construction and housing are likely to be among the sectors hit hardest by the expiry of the mining
boom, work by economist Ross Garnaut and Victoria University's Centre of Policy Studies suggests.
Fuelled by the boom, construction has grown at an annual rate of 4.3 per cent for a decade. But CoPS
says the sector will hit the brakes and shrink at an annual 2.5 per cent from now to 2020, thanks to
falling incomes and rising interest rates.

Icon builds apartments and offices in Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane. Mr Goldenberg says
apartment revenues in Melbourne have hit a ceiling, and while Sydney has been stronger, he expects
revenues there to stall too. But labour costs continue to rise, Mr Goldenberg told The Australian
Financial Review. Workers on Icon's sites earn more than his pharmacist wife, who studied for five
years, or the teachers at his kids' school.

"There have been regulated wage rises in our sector year, on-year,on-year, on-year. It's basically half
the construction contract going up regardless of what the economy's doing.

"I think we've got wage pressures, there's no doubt about it, so I think Garnaut is on the money with
it."

Retail was also expected to take a hit. The CoPS modelling projects retail will grow at just 1.4 per cent
a year until 2020, less than half the 2.9 per cent annual rate of the past decade.

But Myer chief executive Bernie Brookes is not losing much sleep over the warning. He says
Australian retailers are already taking it on the chin from the surge in foreign entrants to our formerly
isolated market, and on-line purchases from offshore e-tailers.

"I understand the modelling that you're quoting but I do think it is more a dismal view than an accurate
view from my perspective." He said Australian non-food retailing grew 4.6 per cent a year since 2013,
through the global financial crisis, some stockmarket corrections, and the Asian crisis.

In Britain, close to depression for several years after the financial crisis, non-food retail sales grew at
an annual rate of 2.8 per cent in the same period.

Page109of234©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."No matter what happens to wages, no matter what happens to mining booms [or] to the equity
markets, you get some good years and some bad years," he said. "But generally, that 3 to 4 per cent
net sales growth has been evident, and I don't expect that to change significantly going forward."

The CoPS modelling, presented to the inaugural meeting of the Melbourne Economic Forum on
Monday, suggests real incomes will have to fall at 0.9 per cent a year until 2020 – and the dollar will
have to drop by a fifth – for an orderly adjustment to the end of the mining boom.

David Gruen, chief Treasury forecaster, disputed the gloomy view on incomes, saying a productivity
revival would keep wages growing slowly. But he agreed the dollar will fall, helping trade-exposed
industries such as manufacturing, education and aviation.

Key points Construction predicted to shrink by 2.5pc a year for the next six years. Retail growth will be
only 1.4pc a year, also to 2020.

IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

i5010022 : Residential Building Construction | i501 : Building Construction | iconst : Construction | icre
: Real Estate/Construction
e1104 : Personal Income/Average Earnings | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat :
Economic News
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | sydney : Sydney | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia
Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South Wales
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140722ea7n00017

Page110of234©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.