Forrest digs his way out of a hole

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business - Opinion & Analysis
Forrest digs his way out of a hole

Elizabeth Knight
791 words
16 January 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
28
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Eighteen months ago Andrew Forrest experienced the early 1990s Rupert Murdoch moment - a
financial crisis resulting from the inability to digest debt used to fund rapid expansion. Corporate
historians will remember Murdoch's survival came down to the wire and his recovery is now
legendary.

Forrest's story of clawing his way back from the brink is just as tantalising - combining a mixture of the
man's ability to convince debt markets to renegotiate deals, and luck that the iron ore price has
defied gravity over the past year.

The renaissance of Forrest's Fortescue Metals took another step on Wednesday when chief
executive Nev Power said it would again accelerate its debt reduction by redeeming $US1.6 billion of
unsecured notes next month.
Power said the iron ore price had held up even better than he had expected and he did not see the
price of iron ore moving much in 2014.
Last month Fortescue repaid $US1 billion in debt and a lease facility. These initiatives, combined
with Forrest's successful negotiations to lower the cost of remaining debt, have shaved $US3 billion
off the group's debt in as many months and reduced interest payments by $US300 million.
Fortescue remains at the risky end of producers but if the iron ore price remains at even close to the
current $US130 a tonne the rapid reduction in debt should allow the company to fulfil its dream of
producing 155 million tonnes annually.

The plan is to continue to expedite debt reduction to a more conservative gearing of 40 per cent,
which represents net debt of about $US5 billion to $US5.5 billion. The days of scorched earth over
costs are not over but the company supply of Tim Tams is no longer threatened.
The bigger issue is that talk of selling a stake in Fortescue's rail and port infrastructure is no longer a
feature of its financial landscape. The sale has not been taken off the agenda but it has been
postponed so that the market largely is no longer factoring it into the equation. The company said it
did not get an attractive enough offer but the reality is that Fortescue no longer needs the proceeds.

While it has some scheduled debt repayments to make in 2015, the big licks do not fall due until
2018. And as production moves towards 155 million tonnes, Fortescue will receive tailwinds from
increased revenue, lower production costs and reduced interest payments.

Getting to a point where increased cash flows would remove the increased leverage taken on to fund
the expansion was always a juggling act for Forrest. This week's announcement suggests the scales
are tipped in Fortescue's favour.
It would have been a different outcome had the iron ore price sunk below $US100 a tonne, as many
analysts expected. While some were more bullish, it is safe to say that none predicted the iron ore

Page138of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.price would have survived the last quarter of the 2013 calendar year at current levels. And the experts
still predict prices will soften in 2014. But the worst of the danger period is now over for Fortescue.

There has been a similar division between analysts on whether Fortescue is a good punt or an
accident waiting to happen. Short-sellers harvested fantastic returns late in 2012, betting on
Fortescue's share price to fall.

And some experts remain of the view that Fortescue is too risky - recommending BHP or Rio Tinto as
a safer exposure to iron ore. But its sharemarket performance has been stellar since it hit a low in
June last year, improving about 80 per cent, including a 16¢ gain on Wednesday. And this is more
than can be said for BHP and Rio.

Bullish outlook

At the head of the bull herd, Deutsche Bank's Australian head of strategy, Tim Baker, released his
Ten Key Questions (and answers) for the 2014 year. Among them was the inevitable one on the
strength of commodity prices, and he takes the view that demand will remain, and taking a 90-year
perspective that current prices are not particularly high.

Baker agrees with a number of strategists that the sharemarket will continue its positive run in 2014 in
the face of corporate downgrades. The broad consensus among investment banks is that markets will
rise again this year, but more modestly.

Baker says downgrades to earnings happen most years and over the past six months the rate of
downgrades has been quite mild.
Deutsche's positive outlook for commodities is fed by its view that China's GDP will grow by 8.6 per
cent this year.

i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | imet : Mining/Quarrying | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources
nedc : Commentaries/Opinions | c171 : Share Capital | reqrmm : Suggested Reading Metals/Mining |
c17 : Funding/Capital | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News
Filter | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020140115ea1g0004k

IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page139of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.