Wesfarmers puts shares on table

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Wesfarmers puts shares on table

Sue Mitchell
723 words
29 May 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
30
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Almost seven years after splurging $20 billion in cash and scrip on the Coles Group, Wesfarmers has
not ruled out using its high-priced shares to fund new deals as it scours local and overseas markets
for potential acquisitions.

Wesfarmers managing director Richard Goyder, who is under pressure to make another
transformational deal or return capital to shareholders after selling $4 billion in assets over the past
two years, says the group would be prepared to issue shares to pay for an acquisition.

"It's a valuable currency and there are advantages in terms of using scrip for acquisitions in Australia
because of capital gains tax rollover relief," Mr Goyder told investors at the group's annual investor
strategy update. "We'll always value our scrip at what we think it's worth.

"But we don't look for a moment in time when there's a different ratio between our scrip and someone
else's scrip – eventually when you're acquiring that company those people become your
shareholders anyway."

Wesfarmers shares are trading close to historic highs after several years of strong earnings growth,
prompting analysts and investors to ponder whether the conglomerate will use its scrip to part-fund
another deal.

Mr Goyder confirmed that Wesfarmers was evaluating potential value-adding transactions locally and
offshore to augment growth from its retail, industrial and resources operations. Mr Goyder said the
group would continue to make acquisitions or sell assets where it created value for shareholders .

But he declined to comment on recent speculation that Wesfarmers is eyeing private hospital
operator, Healthscope, explosives maker Orica or its chemicals business, which is up for sale.
Wesfarmers has also been named as a potential buyer of equipment hire group Coates Hire,
consumer electronics and appliances retailers JB Hi-Fi and The Good Guys, and Hong Kong-based
supermarket chain PARKnSHOP.

"We continue to evaluate opportunities to create value for shareholders – we'll be patient and
disciplined on that," he said. "We always have a view of the long term when we do these things.

"We employ rigorous due diligence processes and maintain a strong balance sheet so we can act
quickly when opportunities arise. We look to acquire businesses we can improve and build over time
and we'll divest businesses where we think it's absolutely in the interests of shareholders to do so."

Mr Goyder said Wesfarmers would be "negligent'' if it did not eventually move into international
markets, but he appeared in no hurry to do so.

"I do believe we do need to build a capability to do things offshore," he said. "People should not be
alarmed by that. I'm talking about building a capability over the next 20 years."

Page68of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The Perth-based conglomerate is cashed up after selling its insurance operations for $3 billion this
year. It expects to book net profits of $1.5 billion from the insurance deals – about $500 million more
than analysts forecast.
Analysts believe that with at least $2 billion in cash and low gearing Wesfarmers has sufficient
firepower to fund a $7 billion deal.

However, finance director Terry Bowen urged analysts to take into account the group's total
liabilities of $19.4 billion, including off balance sheet leases of $13.8 billion and external debt
including bonds of $5.6 billion.

Mr Goyder did not rule out a capital return, but said the timing would depend on work under way to
right-size the balance sheet.

"It's shareholders' money and our approach is to do the best thing we can by shareholders with it. If
we return money to shareholders we have to do it in a tax efficient way," he said,
The group plans to invest between $1.2 billion and $1.5 billion in net capital expenditure this year –
down from initial forecasts between $1.5 billion and $1.9 billion – and to "recycle" about $1.1 billion
of property.

Mr Goyder painted a bright outlook for Wesfarmers's retail and industrial businesses, but said
conditions in coal remained challenging .

He played down the impact of the budget on retail, but expressed disappointment at reaction to the
budget, saying Australians needed to think about the resilience of the economy rather than the impact
of the budget on household budgets.

wsfrm : Wesfarmers Ltd | colsgj : Coles Group Ltd
i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i656 : Mixed Retailing | i6560002 : Department Stores | i8396 : Diversified
Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | iretail : Retail
c18 : Ownership Changes | c312 : External Markets | cacqu : Acquisitions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial
News | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | c31 : Marketing | cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140528ea5t00014

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page69of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.