Cash a bonus but no panacea

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Supplement - Special Report
Cash a bonus but no panacea

Olga Galacho
1,141 words
30 May 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
32
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

A consensus is firming that the future of medical research is too important to leave entirely in the hands
of boffins, following the unexpected federal budget proposal for an endowment fund worth $20 billion
for science in search of miracle cures.

The mooted Medical Research Future Fund has been championed by some as a noble and
long-overdue solution to discovering and developing tangible medicine, and dismissed by others as a
decoy diverting attention from the budget's assault on other areas of scientific endeavour. Observers
warn the government should have avoided "picking a winner" to deliver better health for future
generations.

Former president of the Australian Medical Association, Kerryn Phelps, who now advises the NSW
government on preventative health issues, believes researchers and big pharmaceutical companies
need to share the spoils of the new seed funding. "Some of the money should be quarantined for
non-product or non-profit based inquiry to build better health provision and better paid hospital doctors
to deliver the fruits of research," Dr Phelps said.

Protagonists for a sustainable future for medical discoveries have for decades called on Australian
governments to show a greater commitment than the $780 million allocated for disbursement by the
National Health and Medical Research Council.
A model for delivering $1 billion-plus a year from a capital-protected income stream to develop
blockbuster drugs, and precision-packed medical devices should answer that call. But whether it should
rely on co-payments from doctor visits to bankroll the concept is being questioned. Further, detractors
point to the experience of many research grant outcomes that have failed to convert pre-clinical data
and peer-reviewed findings into medicine.

On the other hand, Henry De Aizpurua, deputy director at the Florey Institute of Neuroscience and
Mental Health, warns you cannot count the cost of research. "Biology has many mysteries to be
discovered, but its secrets are not given up easily. This fund will help researchers to rise above their
current survival mode and concentrate on effective science," Dr Aizpurua said. "If you want to do it
properly – if you believe in a healthy future for research – you can't nickel-and-dime it. I believe the
thinking behind this fund acknowledges that. Then experts in other fields must do the job of ensuring the
research is not lost in translation."Support networks crucial

Tanya Monro, the highly acclaimed nanoparticle researcher based at the University of Adelaide, is a
strong advocate for building the trans-disciplinary network around research to transform it into
meaningful medicine. Without these mechanisms, she argues that spending on science for science's
sake will be setting up research for failure.

"So much of what makes a discovery successful is not coming out of medical research . . . The big
impact emerges from collaboration with business, clinicians, engineers, physicists, mathematicians and

Page51of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.many other disciplines that have the know-how to translate all elements of the research for the benefit of
humanity," Professor Monro said.

Rob Crombie, a former Commercialisation Australia case manager and the new chief of immunotherapy
company Virax, understands better than most how to make biotechnology perform for medical
advancement and investor returns. A lead negotiator in more than 30 deals between drug companies
and drug developers, Dr Crombie said the viability of research has to be measured against questions
such as "what's the value proposition, who wants its, and why would people buy it?". "A sustainable
future for research cannot rely on too much technology push and not enough market pull," he said.
That sentiment is echoed by venture capitalist Chris Nave, the architect of this year's $75 million sale
of Australian scar-tissue repair developer Fibrotech. As managing director of Brandon Capital Partners,
Mr Nave raises and manages funds for research companies. He says those developing medical devices
have the brightest future on the global stage. "Australia's Cochlear and ResMed, two device companies
that dominate the global markets for ear implants and sleep monitors, make their products here," he
said. "Now that we are losing the car-making industry, we need to look beyond laboratories and further
expand the opportunities of the nation's biggest exports manufacturer – the drugs and medical devices
sector."

Mr Nave argues building more capacity in the devices industry is low-risk because "we can't be
undercut by China or Asia as our inventions are protected by patent and Australia's safe clinical and
regulatory environment is compelling to global consumers". It is a strategy that will create sunrise
industry jobs in high-tech manufacturing and feed lucrative export markets.Incentives keep findings alive

Medical research, on the other hand, faces greater risks. The so-called valley of death – that chasm of
commercial reality that a discovery must negotiate to produce a genuine therapy – has claimed much
great science. Last year, a non-partisan road map to help research avoid failure was plotted in
the 300-page McKeon review. If the government sticks to the directions within it, there are high hopes
that the budget's $20 billion endowment proposal will lead to self-funding research delivering
game-changing discoveries to pharmacy shelves. Simon McKeon, the CSIRO chairman and Macquarie
Group operative who chaired the review, said that at the heart of the findings was an imperative for
research to partner with medical collaborators, commercial nous and capital markets.

"Our report did not come up with the co-payment idea, but we did suggest good research would benefit
from health practitioners substituting a portion of clinical time for laboratory work," he said. "Who better
to do research than those specialists who practice medical care for a living? But as we have seen in
overseas models, it requires financial incentives."

Doug Hilton, director of the Walter and Eliza Hall Research Institute, agrees new approaches need
exploring over and above generous grants. "If I am asked for my thoughts on the endowment fund I will
tell them to study how things are done in the United States. For every dollar an institute receives for
research, an extra US60¢ is provided to exclusively build the infrastructure needed to translate that
research into tangibles," Professor Hilton said.

"Further, little silos of knowledge in every hospital are not more worthy of funding than programs to
understand environmental exposures, interpret genetic information, recycle expensive therapies to meet
new needs, and streamline healthcare systems."

The government will undoubtedly be looking for ways to marry the fortunes of medical research with
lifting the burden of healthcare on future budgets, given that close to a quarter of the money collected by
Treasury is spent keeping Australians healthy. The imperative for research to find treatments earlier and
help keep hospital stays shorter has never been as great as it is today, thanks to a growing and ageing
population.

IN
RE
PUB
AN

i257 : Pharmaceuticals | i951 : Health Care/Life Sciences
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140529ea5u0001f

Page52of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.