From hub to housing ...

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

news
From hub to housing ...

LOUISE THROWER & ANTONY DUBBER
776 words
13 May 2014
Goulburn Post
FGOULP
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

AGENTS have sold land once pegged for the Southern Distribution Hub.
Local agent Peter Mylonas and CBRE settled sale of the 263- hectare property last Thursday,
following a lengthy marketing campaign.

Goulburn investor and developer, Neville Burrows has bought the site off Mountain Ash and
Windellama Roads for an undisclosed price.
His family company hopes to rezone the land and subdivide it into about 100 five-acre rural
residential lots.

"Its proximity to Goulburn was one thing (that attracted us)," Mr Burrows said.
"We have also sold 140 blocks at Run-O-Waters estate and we felt there was a need for five-acre
blocks. We will ask the government to look at that."
The property is currently zoned industrial.

Mr Burrows believed there was already too much industrial land in Goulburn, enough to service the
city "for the next 40 years."

This included his parcel in Common St and some 90 acres in Ducks Lane.

"There will always be a need for semi-rural blocks," he said.

"This is a beautiful piece of land close to town and it's not flood prone. There is a need for it as
Goulburn is experiencing strong growth."
The company's town planning consultant is working on the land's rezoning. Mr Burrows said work
would start soon after this happened.

He declined to disclose the price, only to say that the Hub originally paid $11 million for the land
but he "didn't pay that much."

The rural block proposal dashes chances of realising the Hub plan.
A $1 billion business park, focusing on freight and logistics, was proposed for the land some eight
years ago. But while some approvals were secured, the project had not taken off due to what
company director and Goulburn man Bob Stephens described as low investor interest.
Southern Distribution Hub Pty Ltd was placed in receivership by insolvency firm Macquarie
Gordon last December, after major creditor, Goldman Sachs Bank called in a large debt. The debt
was not revealed but was believed to be millions of dollars.

Goldman Sachs bank had taken over the debt from Suncorp in August 2013 and within a month
called it in.

Page292of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Agents called for expressions of interest over two months, ending on March 5.

Hub project director and investor, Bob Stephens hoped a party would carry on the original vision.
Mr Mylonas said agents received six submissions to buy the site as one, including from a
Chinese company wanting to realise the business park plan.

"We negotiated with them but they wanted a delayed settlement," he said.

"They wanted to keep it as a hub and work with the local airport.
There were also numerous offers to buy individual lots."

But agents and receivers were more attracted to Mr Burrows" offer because it was "straightforward
and uncomplicated." In addition, receivers were not interested in dealing with a multitude of
individual sales.

Mr Burrows said he did not consider the Hub idea due to the "oversupply" of industrial land.

"I always admire people who come up with ideas and take risks but unfortunately on this occasion
it didn't work," he said.

Hub project director and investor Bob Stephens told the Post that he was glad to see that a local
developer had bought the site.
"It's good to see a local has stepped up and bought the site," he said.

"I have a lot of time for Neville, and I"m sure his plans for it will benefit Goulburn into the future."

Mountain Ash Road resident Robert Lawrence opposed the original hub plan's location stating that
there were issues with the proposal such as its visual impact and light pollution, but says he is
happy about Mr Burrows" plans for the site.

"There is definitely no doubt that zoning the land and subdividing it into 100 five acre rural
residential lots is much more preferable than the hub plans," he said.

"The land actually borders on the old Goulburn city boundary and was bound to be developed
eventually."
Angus Gordon from Macquarie Gordon Receivers, the company that dealt with the Southern
Distribution Hub receivership told the Post that the sale price didn't cover all of the debts owed to
Goldman Sachs Bank.

"It's fair to say that the hub was an ambitious plan from the outset," he said.

"There will be some residual debt left over, but that leaves some room on the table for the
purchaser to "land bank" it or do whatever they think is the best thing for them."

RE
PUB
AN

nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FGOULP0020140514ea5d00002

Page293of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.