Development site sets price record

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business - Commercial Property
Development site sets price record

Nicole Lindsay
538 words
10 December 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
25
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

A Chinese buyer has paid a record price for a Southbank office building destined for development.

The appetite for Melbourne's city, city-fringe and suburban properties has carried on undiminished by
last week's change of government, with several development sites selling in the past week.

The building at 85 Coventry Street in Southbank fetched $15.2 million - a rate of $15,500 a square
metre - on a sharp yield of 4.77 per cent. The vendor, a private investor, had held the property for
more than 20 years.

Colliers International agent Daniel Wolman, who negotiated the deal along with Andrew Ryan, said
the building is rented to developer Devine and online advertising company Adslot, which have three
years remaining on their leases.
Mr Wolman said the buyer is a Chinese businessman with a tyre and manufacturing business in
China who is looking for more property in Australia.

"We had 10 offers come in just after the change of government, most of them from locals who
understand the market. The election hasn't slowed things down at all. Interest rates are still low and
the sharemarket is volatile, so people look to property," he said.
The two-storey property would be developed into a residential tower, he said.
The deal caps off a busy week for real estate agents. CBRE sold five properties in seven days

A clutch of warehouses stretching between 168-175 High Street and 1-5 Victoria Street in Windsor
sold at auction last Friday in front of a crowd of about 130 people.

Bids for the land, which has no development permits, came from both local and offshore parties.
It sold for $8.4 million to a buyer from mainland China.

CBRE agent Ed Wright said most of the recent sales were for properties with permits but the Victoria
Street sale indicated the strong underlying confidence in the market.

"Interest rates are still low and the banks are willing to fund local developers," Mr Wright said.
Chinese developers have moved out of the CBD and fringe suburbs and bought some key suburban
development sites.

The former service station at 67-73 Poath Road, Murrumbeena fetched $4.05 million and double
residential block at 318-320 St Kilda Street in Brighton sold for $4.5 million.
The latter had a permit for five townhouses, while the Murrumbeena property has a permit for a
six-storey apartment building.

Page243of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.But locals are also bidding competitively for sites, which is helping to drive up prices and reduce
settlement times, Mr Wright said.
An interstate builder has paid $7.6 million for a 7879-square-metre site at 41-49 Robbs Road in West
Footscray that has three street frontages and overlooks a park. The street already has a strong
residential component.

CBRE and Fitzroys negotiated the deal, which was brought to the market by ConnectPlus's Simmy
Abraham.
In late November, a local developer paid $16.4 million for The Old Albany Hotel at 1-23 Millswyn
Street in South Yarra. Earlier, in October, the Parade Inn at 535-541 Royal Parade, Parkville also
sold to a local developer for $12.4 million.

IN
RE

PUB
AN

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
china : China | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020141209eaca0004l

Page244of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.