China becomes Australia’s most open country: snapshot of the FTA

China becomes Australia’s most open country: snapshot of the FTA

Anthony Latimer

HD
BY
WC 2,493 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

27 November 2014
Mondaq Business Briefing
BBPUB
English
(c) 2014 Mondaq Ltd

TD

Introduction
China is Australia's number one trading partner, with two-way flow of goods and services exceeding $150
billion last year. Australia and China came to a Free Trade Agreement (FTA) this week, which will
ensure that 85% of all Australian exports will enter China tariff-free, such figure rising to 93% within four
years, and to 95% when the FTA is in full force in the next decade. Australia is expected to benefit from
the FTA to the amount of $18 billion over the next 10 years.

FTAThe is an ambitious and bold document. However, Australian businesses will need to position
themselves to look at and understand how the details of the FTA will be applied in practice.
Notwithstanding this, the importance of the FTA is less in its detailed provisions and more in the signal
that it sends that both China and Australia are prepared to break down barriers for business. China will
become, in terms of tariff barriers, the most open market that Australia exports to. Australia, for its part,
has stepped back from its negative approach to Chinese investment. It has raised the thresholds for
private investors so that they are the same as those that apply to the US, and has relaxed restrictions
upon senior Chinese workers. Invariably a key area that will disappoint will be around the liberalisation of
services.

It is unlikely that Australia will be given a "leg up" over other countries as many commentators seem to
imagine. Many of the concessions in the FTA around services are those that are already available to other
foreign investors. Those that are not will probably be toned back so that they are consistent with the
current liberalisation, or further liberalisations will be pushed through by China over the next year.
Notwithstanding this, the fact remains that this is the most far reaching free trade agreement that China
has signed with any country. Of itself, the signing of the FTA should signal a new era of engagement
between Australia and China. Further, Australia has secured from China a "most favoured nation" status,
which means that any future trade concessions granted by China to other countries will also be granted to
Australia, but this will not apply to commodities that are not covered by the FTA (see below for a list of
commodities that are not covered).

Snapshot of the FTA

We set out below the key takeaway points in relation to each of the key industry sectors affected by the
FTA.

Agriculture

All tariffs on

dairy products areremoved within 4 to 11 years.Tariff on infant milk formula
isreduced from 15% to 0% over 4 years.Tariff on liquid milk is reduced from15%
to 0% over 9 years.Tariffs on ice cream, lactose, caseinand milk albumins are
reduced from 10-19% to 0% over 4 years.Tariffs on cheese, butter and
yogurtare reduced from 10-15% to 0% over 9 years.Tariff on milk powders is
reduced over11 years.

Page90of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NRF Takeaway

Tariffs on sheep meat and goat meat arereduced from 12-23% to 0% over 8

Tariffs on beef are reduced from 12-25%to 0% over 9 years.Tariff on beef

The benefits for the Australian dairy sector are expected toreflect the
increased dairy exports for New Zealand after their FTAwith China.In line with
New Zealand but withoutthe quotas.
Beef
offal is reduced from12% to 0% over 4 to 7 years.
Beef exports to China are currently worth AU$722 million. Although the reduced
tariff is important to our beef industry, thetest will be in its
implementation.  China has a largedomestic beef industry that it wants to
protect (although herdshave been depleted) and as a result we assume that in
Chinanon-tariff barriers will replace tariff barriers. In addition,Australian
beef is almost double the cost of Chinese beef.  Asa result query whether
there will be a significant increase inimports resulting from the FTA.Sheep
and goat meat exports to Chinaare currently worth AU385 million.Live cattle
exports to China arecurrently worth AU$136 million.Exports to China of skins,
hides andleather are currently worth AU$896 million.Taken together, the
changes to theseindustries are expected to boost the sector by AU$11
billion.Sheep and goat
meat
years.Tariff on frozen sheep offal is reducedfrom 18% to 0% over 7 years.Live
animal
exports
all tariffs on liveanimal exports to be reduced from 10% to 0% over 4
years.Skins, hides and
leather
hides and skins arereduced from 5-8.4% to 0% over 2 to 7 years.Tariffs on
kangaroo hides and skins arereduced from 14% to 0% over 4 years.Tariffs on
other leather products arereduced from 5-14% over 4 years.Barley and sorghum
NRF Takeaway
Tariff on barley is reduced from 3% to0% immediately.Tariff on sorghum is
reduced from 2% to0% immediately.
Barley and sorghum exports to China are currently worth almostAU$500 million,
and this change is expected to give a real boost tothis industry.Horticulture
NRF Takeaway
All tariffs reduced from up to 30% to0% within 4 years.Tariffs on macadamia
nuts, almonds,walnuts, pistachios and all other nuts are reduced from 10-25%
over4 years. Tariffs on various fruits are reducedfrom 10-30% over 4
years.Tariffs on all fresh vegetables arereduced from 10-13% over 4 years.
The change is expected to give a real boost to this industry.

Tariff on live cattle is reduced from10% to 0% over 4 years.More generally,

Tariff on sheep skins is reduced from7% to 0% over 4 years.Tariffs on cow

Seafood

NRF Takeaway

All tariffs, including tariffs of 15%and 10-14% respectively on rock

lobster and abalone are reduced to0% over 4 years
The change is expected to give a real boost to this industry.
Tariffs on wine are reduced from 14-20%to 0% within 4 years

Wine exports NRF Takeaway

Wine exports to China are currently worth $217 million, and thechange is
expected to give a boost to this local industry.Wool
An Australia-only duty free quota forwool, in addition to continued access
to China's WTO woolquota.The duty free quota will grow by 5%each year to 2024.

 

Resources

Immediate removal of 3% coking

coal(i.e. metallurgical coal for steel making) tariff.Thermal/steam coal
tariff is reducedfrom 6% to 0% within 2 years.Tariffs on non-coking coal are
reducedfrom 6% to 0% over 2 years.
In relation to the resources and energy sector as a whole, uponfull
implementation of the FTA, almost all of Australia'scurrent resources and
energy exports will benefit from duty-freeentry into China.  The FTA will

Page91of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.provide greater certainty forAustralian exporters by locking in zero tariffs
on major exportssuch as gold, crude petroleum oils and liquefied natural
gas. This will cement the mining and energy sector relationship that isthe
cornerstone of trade between China and Australia.Transformed resources and
energy products
Tariffs removed on minerals commodities(many immediately), including
refined copper and alloys (unwrought)(currently 1-2%), aluminium oxide
(alumina) (currently 8%), nickelmattes and oxides (currently 3%), unwrought
zinc (currently 3%),copper waste and scrap (currently 1.5%), unwrought
aluminium(currently 5-7%), aluminium waste and scrap (currently
1.5%),unwrought nickel (currently 3%), other mineral substances(currently
3-5%) and titanium dioxide (currently 6.5-10%).

Manufacturing Exports

Removal of all tariffs across a rangeof processed foods, including fruit

Tariffs on pharmaceutical products arereduced from 3-10% to 0% either

juice and honey.
The manufacturing sector as a whole, upon full implementation ofthe FTA, will
receive a real boost as almost all of Australia'smanufactured products
exported to
China will benefit from duty-freeentry into China.Pharmaceuticals
immediately or within 4 years,including vitamins and health products.Other
manufactured
products
including car engines(currently 10%), plastic products (6.5-14%), diamonds and
otherprecious stones (currently 3-8%), orthopaedic appliances (currently4%),
aluminium plates and sheets (currently 6-10%), make-up andhair products
(currently 6.5-15%), centrifuges (currently 10%) andpearls (currently 21%).

Tariffs are removed on variousmanufactured products within 4 years,

Financial Services

Australian financial service providerswill be given unprecedented access to

the
Chinese market and willbe able to do business in China more easily.  This
willprovide a significant boost to Australia's financial servicesexports.Some
specific examples of the changesto the financial services sector include the
following:
These concessions to the Australian financial services sector aresignificant
in that it should give Australia access to China'sfinancial markets.  Some of
the concessions in the FTA alreadyexist, whereas some are new and not already
available.In particular, these concessions willprovide opportunities for the
Australian funds managementindustry.Combined with the Renminbi
QualifiedInstitutional Investor scheme, the FTA delivers a new level ofaccess
to the Chinese market for Australian funds managers.

Worker Mobility

The FTA will reduce barriers to labourmobility between the Australian and

Chinese labour markets, andwill improve temporary access within the framework
of eachcountry's existing immigration and employment safeguards.Chinese
companies will be permitted tobring management level individuals (i.e. skilled
service providers,investors and business visitors) to Australia.Further, new
Investment FacilitationArrangements, which will operate within the framework
ofAustralia's existing visa system and which will be available tolarge
infrastructure projects worth more than $150 million, willprovide more
flexibility for companies to respond to economic andlabour market challenges
These changes are important for their symbolism and are not asextensive as was
agreed between China and the USA.The current procedures for Chineseworkers to
enter Australia are extremely convoluted to the pointwhere projects are often
delayed because project terms oftenprevent foreign workers from entering the
Australian labour market.These changes will mainly apply to senior management

Page92of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.individualswho are currently not able to get into Australia.It is expected
that these changes willstrengthen investment in large infrastructure projects,
leading tothe creation of new jobs and increased economic activity
inAustralia.

Services

China will permit Australian maritimetransport service suppliers to establish
wholly Australian-ownedship management enterprises in the Shanghai Free Trade
Zone().
These concessions are generally already available to foreigninvestors.

Legal

NRF Takeaway

NRF Takeaway

Australian law firms will be able toestablish commercial associations with

Chinese law firms in theSFTZ.Within such commercial associations,foreign
lawyers qualified in foreign countries will be able topractice relevant
foreign countries' law international law;Chinese qualified lawyers will be
able to practice Chinese law andinternational law without suspension of their
Chinese practicingcertificates.
This will allow for the provision of international legal serviceswithout
restrictions on the geographic location of clients. We willneed to see the
detail to understand whether this expands upon whatis already open to foreign
law firms in the SFTZ.Education
Within 1 year, China will list on anofficial Ministry of Education website
all Australian privatehigher education institutions registered on the
CommonwealthRegister of Institutions and Courses for Overseas Students.
This will add 77 institutions to the existing 105 Australianinstitutions on
the website.Chinese students currently make up 29%of Australia's international
student market, contributing AU$4billion into the Australian economy. This
will add 77 institutionsto the existing 105 Australian institutions on the
website,providing a trusted source of information to potential
Chinesestudents.Telecommunications NRF Takeaway
China will guarantee new access forAustralian companies investing in
value-added telecommunicationsservices in the SFTZ with improved foreign
equity limits.
This will enable wholly Australian-owned companies to supplydomestic
multi-party communication services, application storeservices, store and
forward services and call-center services tothe Chinese market.We need to see
the detail on thisconcession to understand whether it is a new
concession. However, based on the information provided, it would appear to
bean important concession for Australian companies.Tourism
NRF
Takeaway
Tourism operators will be able toconstruct, renovate and operate wholly
Australian-owned hotels andrestaurants in China, and Australian travel
agencies and touroperators will be able to establish wholly-owned subsidiaries
inChina.
These changes are important for their symbolism.The construction and operation
ofhigh-ranking hotels fall with the restricted sector of the currentversion
of Catalogue for the Guidance of Foreign InvestmentIndustries.Healthcare

NRF Takeaway
Health care operators will now be ableto establish wholly Australian-owned
hospitals and aged careinstitutions in China.
This should be a significant relaxation for the construction andoperation of
hospitals.  Currently, foreign investors are onlypermitted to establish
hospitals in seven cities.  This shouldallow Australian investors to move
beyond those seven cities.It is less significant for theconstruction and
operation of aged care institutions.This should greatly expand theAustralian
private health sector's ability to providehealthcare services throughout
China.  However, the thought isthat China may be slow in implementing the
domestic regulationsnecessary to implement the concession.Manufacturing
NRF Takeaway
Wholly Australian-owned companies willbe able to provide contract
manufacturing services in Chinacovering a range of manufactured products.
This is a unique concession, as it marks China's first everfree trade
commitment to manufacturing.

Page93of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Chinese Investment into Australia

Threshold for screening by the ForeignInvestment Review

Board () increased fromAU$248 million to AU$1.078 billion for private Chinese
companiesbuying in Australia in non-sensitive sectors.For agricultural land,
FIRB scrutinythreshold lowered to AU$15 million for farm land, and AU$53
millionfor buying an Australian agribusiness.The Australian government has
retainedthe ability to screen Chinese investments at lower thresholds
forsensitive sectors, such as media, telecommunications anddefence-related
industries.FIRB will continue to screen allinvestments by Chinese State-Owned
Enterprises
It is expected that, due to the increase in the FIRB threshold,bilateral
investment between China and Australia will increaseconsiderably.  The Chinese
government estimates an increase inoutbound investment of $1.44 trillion over
the next 10 years.However, on the new lower thresholdsfor agriculture,
uncertainty will exist as to the effect of thechanges and on properly
understanding the differences between farmland and agribusiness.
These changes are important for their symbolism.  China hasviewed FIRB as
discriminating against Chinese companies.Accordingly, this change is important
for China. And the result ofthis change means that Australia should be more
attractive forChinese investors than Canada and the US, but still behind
theUK.However, the changes do not apply toChinese State-Owned Enterprises
(i.e. government enterprises).Tax NRF Takeaway
China and Australia have agreed toreview bilateral taxation arrangements,
including relief fromdouble-taxation.
This will greatly benefit parties doing business between China andAustralia.

Industries that miss out
Australian rice, sugar, wheat, oil seeds and cotton industries will miss out on benefits at this time, so if
China agrees anything with the USA or Europe in respect of these industries, Australia will be at a
disadvantage. However, the FTA is subject to review in 3 years. There will be no changes to Australia's
risk-based quarantine measures as a result of the FTA.

Mr Anthony Latimer

Norton Rose Fulbright Australia

Level 18

Grosvenor Place

225 George St

Sydney

2000

AUSTRALIA

Tel: 29330 8000

Fax: 293308000

E-mail: Alex.boxsell@nortonrosefulbright.com

URL: www.nortonrosefulbright.com/

Click Here for related articles

(c) Mondaq Ltd, 2014 - Tel. +44 (0)20 8544 8300 - http://www.mondaq.com

CO
IN

nortrb : Norton Rose Fulbright LLP
i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i413 : Dairy Products | icnp :
Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products | i835 : Legal Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services

Page94of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

RE

c312 : External Markets | gtrade : Tariffs/Trade Barriers | e512 : Physical Trade | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | c31 : Marketing/Markets | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic
News | gcat : Political/General News | gdip : International Relations | gpir : Politics/International Relations |
ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

IPD International Law
PUB Mondaq Limited
AN

Document BBPUB00020141127eabr00002

Page95of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.