Media Release: Coles

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Media Release: Coles

662 words
25 January 2014
AAP MediaNet Press Releases
AAPMPR
English
© 2014 Australian Associated Press Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved

MEDIAMedia release distributed by AAP Medianet.

Hot potato chips become truly Aussie as Coles freezes out imports

Coles will mark Australia Day by replacing all its Smart Buy frozen vegetables sold across the nation
with 100% Aussie-grown vegetables.

In a move which will benefit more than 240 growers in Tasmania and New South Wales, Coles has
signed a five-year contract with Simplot to source only Australian-grown vegetables for its Smart Buy
frozen range - in addition to its existing Coles Brand frozen vegetables commitment with Simplot.
The deal means growers will need to plant more crops so Simplot can supply an extra 1.3 million
kilograms of Australian-grown produce for its Smart Buy Mixed Vegetables and 1.4 million kilograms
for its Smart Buy potato chips.

The extra demand for Simplot, which has been a valued supplier for Coles for more than 15 years,
represents a 12 per cent increase in the volume of private label frozen vegetables they supply to
Coles.
Coles now stocks more than 32 Coles Brand and Smart Buy frozen vegetable and potato products
supplied by Simplot. In addition, Simplot supplies Coles with over 200 of its own brands, including
Birds Eye.
Coles converted all Coles Brand frozen vegetables to Australian grown in 2012 and announced its
intention last September to source only Australian frozen vegetables for all private label brands by
early 2014.

Coles Chief Operating Officer John Durkan said the latest move to source 100 per cent Australian
Smart Buy frozen vegetables brings at least 2.7 million kilograms of additional volume each year to
Australian growers that was previously sourced overseas from China, Thailand, New Zealand and
Europe.
"We know our customers want to buy Australian-grown produce and we also want to support
Australian farmers so we have made a concerted effort over recent years to buy Australian produce
whenever and wherever we can," he said.

The Simplot deal follows Coles announcement late last year to source 100 per cent of its private label
canned peaches, pears and apricots from SPC Ardmona using fruit grown in Victoria's Goulburn
Valley.
And in March last year, Coles would switch supply of Coles Brand tinned pineapples back to Australia
by sourcing 4 million kilograms of additional pineapple from growers in Queensland.

Thanks to the three separate initiatives to replace imports - the Simplot, SPC and tinned pineapple
contracts - Coles now sources an extra 7 million kilograms or 500 truckloads of tinned fruit and frozen
vegetables from Australia each year.

Page227of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.As part of Coles' Australia-first sourcing policy, around 96% of Coles fresh fruit and vegetables is
Australian grown, 100% of fresh milk and meat from the meat department is Aussie grown and 90% of
Coles Brand food and drink products are made in Australia.

Simplot Australia Managing Director Terry O'Brien said: "Simplot Australia is a proud supporter of
locally grown produce and is committed to helping deliver quality Australian grown products to
Australian families."

Fourth generation Tasmanian farmer James Addison and his father, David, welcomed the
announcement by Coles to source 100% Australian-grown produce for its private label frozen
vegetable range.

"The five-year contract gives us added confidence to plant our crops and greater certainty in knowing
their future," James said.

Addison Farm Produce began in 1860 at Moriarty in northern Tasmania when James' great great
grandfather, Edwin Addison, bought land. The business, which is now run by James, his brother Mark
and father David, supply Simplot with peas, beans, potatoes and onions.

Stowport potato grower Justin Shephard, whose family has been growing potatoes in Tasmania since
the 70s, also welcomed the announcement.

"Tasmanian spuds are among the best in the world so it makes sense for frozen chips to be made from
Australian grown potatoes," he said.

For media inquiries, please contact Coles Media Relations on 0438 796 745 or email Julia Balderstone
at Julia.balderstone@coles.com.au or 0409 570 107

SOURCE: Coles

NNNN

IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

i0100216 : Vegetable Growing | i010021601 : Potato Growing | i4141 : Frozen Food | i0 : Agriculture |
i01002 : Horticulture | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i414 : Food Preserving/Speciality Foods | icnp :
Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | npress : Press Releases | ncat : Content Types
austr : Australia | tasman : Tasmania | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Australian Associated Press Pty Ltd
Document AAPMPR0020140124ea1p000m9

Page228of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.