Aussie Assets Viable, Reiterates Lanco

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies
Aussie Assets Viable, Reiterates Lanco

Rachita.Prasad@timesgroup.com
776 words
10 December 2014
The Economic Times - Mumbai Edition
ECTMUM
English
Copyright © 2014. Bennett, Coleman & Co., Ltd.

Lanco Infratech believes that its Australian coal asset remains viable and will yield "reasonable returns"
on investment although some analysts are questioning the viability of the project. Lanco's Griffin reported
an operating loss of Aus $ 24.5 million in the first half of 2014, when output fell 9%. Although Australian
government has extended support to the project, analysts are concerned about the fall in coal prices and
the parent company's huge debt. However, Lanco believes the project will still give reasonable returns.
"The price of coal has declined significantly since 2011 when Lanco acquired the asset. However, coal is
projected to remain an important energy source and as per the medium to long price projection by
various expert firms, the export project remains viable with reasonable return on the investment," a
company spokesperson told ET.

Lanco has recently said it may divest its Australian coal asset, but it may not be able to get very good
valuation as the Australian benchmark thermal coal price has halved in the past three years, which
analysts say has changed the economics of the mining project and the associated infrastructure.
Australasia Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis (IEEFA) said, in a report titled 'The
Imminent Failure of Lanco Infratech's Investment in Griffin Coal', that the project is headed towards
"insolvency". "IEEFA views Lanco Infratech's Australian Griffin Coal as a potentially stranded asset.
Being overgeared and loss-making at the gross cash operating level, the current business viability is
questionable," said Tim Buckley, director of energy finance studies, IEEFA. Lanco said the analyst had
wrongly questioned the project's viability and had not verified facts with the company. "The question of
insolvency referred in the IEEFA article is in the wake of last tranche of consideration payment to Seller of
the asset which remains fully funded. Hence, the reference to insolvency possibility is hypothetical and
was drawn based on assumptions without checking the facts with the company," Lanco said. Lanco also
dismissed the report stating Buckley, the financial analyst, has financial interest in few renewable
companies. Buckley said Lanco was "trying to distract from the key points"."We acquired the mine for Aus
$750 million and with interest, it amounts to Aus $1 billion. Given that we plan to extract 400 million
tonne from the mines, we will require $2.5 per tonne of margin to meet the acquisition cost and another
$5-6 to meet capex cost. The report states that Griffin will face insolvency in 2015 based on the premise
that it doesn't have resource to make payment of $150 million due, but that is not true as the payment is
fully funded," Lanco's spokesperson said.
In 2011, Lanco Infra acquired the Griffin Coal in Collie, West Australia for Aus $750 million. Although the
mine's operations and financials were in poor shape, Lanco believed that with an investment of Aus $1
billion, it could turn around the business and expand production from the mine which has reserves of 1.1
billion tonnes."Given the parent company's $6 billion of consolidated net debt, the corporate debt
restructuring programme under way in India, plus the continued gross operating losses of Griffin Coal
and the Aus $150 million final payment due to the Australian creditors in February 2015, it seems of
questionable merit for directors to allow this group to continue to make such claims," Buckley said.
However, Lanco said the payment of Aus $ 150 million that is due in February is fully funded. "The
requirement for capex funding is still a little away (at least 18 months) which will be tied up at an
appropriate time (as it is not required at this stage)," Lanco said. Analysts said the coal market was
stressing many big players. "Because of China cutting down on imports, and alternative supplies
available from North America, even the existing operating mines in Australia are feeling severe stress.
Even large players like Glencore and BHP Billiton have cut down on operation and having production
holidays" said Debasish Mishra, senior director-consulting at Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu India. Indian

Page228of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.companies like Lanco, GMR and GVK acquired coal assets in Australia to plug the fuel gap. While Lanco
is the only one with an operational projects, all three have faced resistance from local landowners and
environment groups. Lanco even ran into trouble with its local contractor Carna, its supplier for workers
and equipment, and has to terminate the pact leading to production coming to a standstill. Lanco said that
it has now got transferred on the projects and work has resumed.

lncotc : Lanco Infratech Limited
icre : Real Estate/Construction
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

CO
IN
NS
RE
PUB Bennett, Coleman & Co., Ltd.
AN

Document ECTMUM0020141210eaca0000m

Page229of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.