Chinese investment dollars may flow from dairy tour: Tasmanian Government

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

NS
RE

IPD
PUB Australian Broadcasting Corporation
AN

Document ABCNEW0020140919ea9j000e2

Chinese investment dollars may flow from dairy tour: Tasmanian Government

248 words
19 September 2014
Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC) News
ABCNEW
English
(c) 2014 Australian Broadcasting Corporation

A delegation of Chinese investors has toured Tasmanian dairy operations to investigate potential
business opportunities.
The 31 investors have visited farms and milk plants in the state's north over the past two days, keen to
investigate opportunities to produce and process milk for export to China.

State Growth Minister Matthew Groom said the delegates from 16 companies were genuinely interested
in the state's industry.

"They are investment ready, this is real money, they are genuinely interested in Tasmania," he said.
Xiao Peng is from China's Henan province, home to 110 million people.
"I'm impressed with what I've seen and I will definitely consider potential investment in Tasmania," he said
through an interpreter.

Some of the investors are from a major supermarket chain looking to secure long-term contracts.
The Chinese parties are hopeful of signing letters of intent with some suppliers and producers when they
meet next week.
Raymond Wong from Headland Capital, a private equity investor, said the Chinese public was beginning
to recognise the premium quality of Tasmanian produce.

Mr Wong will meet representatives from the cherry, apple and abalone industries.
"That will lead to hopefully a very bright and long-term supply contractual relationship," he said.
"I think with the growing consumption power in China, these products will be very welcomed.

"Hopefully we'll be buying more products from Tasmania."

The visit was organised by Austrade and the Tasmanian Government.

gpol : Domestic Politics | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations
china : China | tasman : Tasmania | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr :
Australia | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz
: Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
dairy

Page236of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.