DINING DYNASTIES

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Taste
DINING DYNASTIES

Sharnee Rawson
1,647 words
15 July 2014
The Courier-Mail
COUMAI
CourierMail
30
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

COVER STORY Family and business are the best accompaniments for these clans, who are shaping
the way Brisbane residents, eat, drink and be merry, writes Sharnee Rawson In two short years, a
lawyer-turned-hotelier has emerged as the city’s biggest restaurant player. Damian Griffiths has pulled
off what everyone said was impossible – transforming a dingy, rarely visited corner of Fortitude Valley
into a pumping hub of bars and restaurants, including the multifaceted Alfred & Constance.
The former immigration lawyer said he stumbled into the hotel industry, purchasing the budget Snooze
Inn and a rundown building in Auchenflower, before tuning in to the “lack of fun, hip boutique hotels”
and constructing Limes in 2008.

“I basically bought the cheapest, smallest piece of land for sale in the Valley and convinced an aunt to
invest by telling her we were building apartments,” Mr Griffiths said.
“The architects told me it was too small – it will never work – and Queensland’s largest property
developer told me I’d go broke. Everyone said I couldn’t do it.” Mr Griffiths said the final hotel was the
result of collaborative thinking. “A town planner suggested putting a rooftop bar on there, so I flew to
Barcelona to see what was going on there,” he said.

“I was reading an article about the top 10 young designers in Australia, and one of them was Alexander
Lotersztain, so I contacted him. That was a real turning point for us – he was around 23, and at the
perfect point in his career, and he got me really interested in good design.” The partnership has been
ongoing, with Mr Lotersztain lending his hand to the creative genius that is Alfred & Constance, with a
restaurant, cocktail bar, dessert cafe and bunker bar weaved through two old Queenslander homes,
plus sister restaurants Alfredo’s, Kwan Brothers and Chester Street Bakery and Bar.

Plenty of time is devoted to researching global trends – Mr Griffiths has a Sydney newsagent send
“every newspaper under the sun”, including the New York Times, via express post each week – as well
as travelling and carefully cultivating relationships with equally passionate people.

“For A & C, I travelled to the United States to look at tiki bars and convinced (tiki cocktail legend)
Richard Boccato to come back and help me. We originally planned Kwan to be a ramen bar, but I
stopped in Hong Kong via Italy and found a pumping restaurant that does Thai and Vietnamese street
food, so a week later, I had Jocelyn Hancock and another one of our chefs on a plane to check it out.”
The noodle machine, already purchased for the venue, sits untouched. “I like high-energy venues and
I like the music loud. There’s a fun side to the street-style of food.” Now he employs 180 people, with no
signs of slowing down. Mr Griffths said he learnt from the start about how important it was to build a
good team.

“I’ve been fortunate to meet people on the way, often chance meetings or people I’ve sought out, to ask
for their help and have been surprised.’’ he said.

Page58of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.He was in talks with patron chef and Queensland Taste contributor chef Jocelyn Hancock for 18 months
before Alfred & Constance even opened.

“Some people will like me or hate me, and plenty think, this guy changes his mind a lot, but the good
thing about Jocelyn and Alex is that they are very adaptable,’’ he said. “I have the vision, these guys
can implement it. They make it happen and bring edge to it.” The results of the risks taken by Mr
Griffiths (A & C was built mid-GFC) speak for themselves – the whole precinct is packed on weekends.
“Limes was the catalyst for all of it – a boutique hotel in the worst part of town can make it the coolest
part of town,’’ he said.

“I saw it as a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity. We’ve claimed it as our own A & C precinct, and now more
bars have moved there. We don’t see it as competition, but it adds more choice and brings more
choice.” Nehme Ghanem had a different foray into the hospitality industry – washing dishes with his
brother Adonis at his family’s now-defunct Brisbane restaurants, including Chez Laila (South Bank) and
Adonis (Annerley).

Now the brothers have a solid portfolio of their own – Byblos (Hamilton and Melbourne), Baba Ganouj
(city), Fifth Element (South Bank) and Black Bird (city). “We grew up in hospitality,” Nehme said. “Our
school years were spent earning pocket money washing dishes. My brother and I both went to
university – I studied business, majoring in electronic commerce, and he did construction management
– but we decided to do what we know is best.” Time spent studying only strengthened their game.
Nehme focuses on operations, working with staff and day-to-day issues, while Adonis manages the
construction and upkeep of each venue.

“He’s a real tradie, so he is a bit shorter with people, which is great for building venues because it gets
the job done,’’ Nehme Ghanem said.

“When it comes to staff, you have to be a bit more lenient. We employ over 200 people – sometimes it
feels like I’m running a child care centre (laughs), you’ve got to stroke their egos and keep them happy.”
The duo never planned to expand their Brisbane empire to Melbourne, but when they were approached
by a leasing agent, they saw the potential.

“We thought, if we can make it in Melbourne, we can show that we are a success and be taken
seriously,’’ Mr Ghanem said.

“That’s exactly what it did – it opened our eyes to the world of hospitality outside of Brisbane, it built us
a successful network and got us Jake.” That would be Jake Nicolson, former head chef of Melbourne’s
Circa, The Prince, and a key player in the instant success of glitzy, glamorous Black Bird, which opened
in February. Any space larger than 400sq metres is generally considered large in restaurant terms.
Black Bird checks in at 1000sq m. Despite that, and spending $3 million on the fitout of the Eagle
Street Pier restaurant alone, Mr Ghanem said they still didn’t consider it their riskiest move so far.

“We had so much confidence coming into this place. We knew Fridays (next door) was such a massive
success with the drinking crowd, so we knew that if the restaurant didn’t succeed, we could manage
with the bar, so risk was minimised,’’ he said.

“There were a few other factors as well – the location is first-class, on the riverside, there is a very good
corporate market there, and we put together an A-team, with Penny Grant, from Melbourne’s
Stokehouse as sommelier, and Jake, so we had something special to differentiate ourselves.” The
brothers work well together as a team and occasionally defer to their well-seasoned parents for advice.

“Our dad is there for moral support and to mentor us,” Mr Ghanem said. The Moubarak family also look
to their Lebanese heritage for inspiration when designing menus and crafting a feel to their venues,
including bars Lychee Lounge, Laruche and Gerard’s Bar, and restaurants Gerard’s Bistro, Hatch & Co,
and the Mero (with the Apo, Fortitude Valley, on the way).

Johnny Moubarak said he, along with brothers Elie and Mel and sister Katie, grew up in the family’s
small deli and fruit shops, first in Melbourne and then Brisbane “Mum is a great cook and a great
inspiration. People come into our home, and she welcomes with them open arms – that’s how we want
to operate our businesses,” Mr Moubarak said.

The siblings were all travelling down their own paths – the oldest Elie as a civil engineer, second-eldest
Mel and the youngest Katie with a trendy shoe business, and third child Johnny working as a film
director, mainly in advertising and music videos.
“Elie really set things on track when he purchased the Lychee Lounge (West End). I started helping out
and then when Laruche came on, we all jumped on deck,’’ Mr Moubarak said.

Page59of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.He described two-storey Laruche , on Ann St, Fortitude Valley, as the biggest financial risk they had
taken when it opened in 2008.
“We never wanted to come to the Valley, but it was such a great site and a beautiful building, we just
had to take it,’’ he said.

“It was risky, especially because other venues like Cloudland were opening at the time, so we thought,
is there enough room for another player? Obviously there was.” Gerard’s Bistro, the group’s first
serious foray into food, opened in 2012, but didn’t open to the same level of immediate success.

“We struggled in the beginning – we had this formula that didn’t work, but we did a bit of research and
realised it wasn’t about the food, it was about how the customer thinks,” Mr Moubarak said.

“We reset ourselves, how the food was plated and how the menu was formatted and it just clicked.”
Changes included ditching the entree/main/dessert format for share plates, and scaling back servings
sizes and prices.

“We don’t build venues to make them feel like your home – we want to take people out of their comfort
zone, to inspire them and give them a different experience,’’ Mr Moubarak said. “That’s the key to our
philosophy.” Like the Ghanems, the Moubaraks also have their own hats – Elie is the creative director,
Mel acts as chief financial officer, Katie handles marketing and Johnny takes care of operations.“We
have 120 staff but ... we describe ourselves as one big family – it’s all organic, we just bounce off each
other,’’ he said.

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gfod : Food/Drink | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | melb : Melbourne | queensl : Queensland | victor : Victoria
(Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document COUMAI0020140714ea7f00002

Page60of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.