Coastal glamour

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Domain
Coastal glamour

ANNA ANDERSON
1,123 words
3 May 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
15
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

NEW HOMES

Holiday homes in beachside towns close to the city are proving popular.

The trick to making the most of a seaside getaway is to find one within an easy drive from home. Before
spoiling yourself with a weekender, it's worth asking whether you'd be willing to make the journey after
work on a Friday evening. Most buyers would agree anything over a three-hour drive is too far. In fact,
Bryan Rose, managing director of Rose Group, developers of the Beaches project at Catherine Hill Bay
on the central coast, says three hours is pushing it. "We've done some research and anything more than
two hours is just too far for a weekend," Rose says.

Beaches is a new masterplanned village half an hour from Newcastle and in striking distance of Sydney.
"If you leave the CBD on a Friday at 2pm, it takes exactly 1½ hours to reach Catherine Hill Bay," Rose
says. The site has 550 land lots all within a five-to-10 minute walk from two beaches: the surf-patrolled
Middle Camp Beach and Moonee Beach. "Surfers don't like me talking about this spot because it's
absolutely natural with a fantastic surf break," Rose says.
Design guidelines for housing on the site reveal an Australian beach house style. "The houses will all
have verandahs and the streetscapes will be very special," Rose says. "We're trying to hark back to
earlier, simpler times."

To the south of Sydney, Kiama has long been a weekend getaway for Sydneysiders. It is a 90-minute
drive along the Princes Highway or about two hours by train. The big attraction is its choice of beaches
including surfers' favourites, Mystics, Boyds and Surf and the family-friendly Kendalls, Easts and Black
Beach. Locals and weekenders love the 22-kilometre Kiama Coast Walk and the quick trip to Berry and
Jamberoo.
A new residential project named Kiama Place is on schedule to begin construction by the middle of the
year. It has proved popular with a range of buyers including families from Cheltenham and Bondi who
will use them as holiday homes. "We've also had local downsizers, some empty nesters and even some
investors from China," says the project sales manager at Vodaland, Sandra Chu. "There are so many
attractions here; golf courses, fishing spots, 15 vineyards and so many beaches." Nine of the 12
duplexes offered in the first release have sold. The complex of 32 architect-designed Torrens title
homes is 600 metres from the beach. All have four bedrooms, open-plan living areas, brick exteriors
and double garages. Their lack of a coastal view keeps the prices down to between $635,000 and
$650,000.

Port Stephens pushes the two-hour limit suggested by Rose but the extra half hour of driving is worth it.
Locals say Shoal Bay is the jewel in Port Stephens' crown. Not only has it a pristine beach and laid-back
ambience but also four big marinas and several boat ramps. One street back from the beachfront, a
new residential development, the Shoal, is under construction. Marchese Partners have designed the
six-storey complex of 43 two-bedroom apartments and four penthouses.

Page97of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Buyers from Sydney, Newcastle and the Hunter Valley are showing interest but Paul Maund of
Robinsons Real Estate, marketers of the Shoal, says there's also interest from Melbourne, Brisbane
and the Gold Coast. Newcastle's airport at Williamstown, Australia's fastest growing regional airport, is
25 minutes' drive from Shoal Bay. "We get a lot of clients flying in for holidays. They come for the
boating facilities and game fishing - this is a hugely popular boating and fishing area," Maund says.

Beaches, Catherine Hill Bay, central coast

The surf club was founded in 1928 by local coalminers. While mining ceased in 2002, Catherine Hill Bay
remains a favourite spot for surfers. The Rose Group's development has 550 land lots all within five to
10 minutes' walk of two beaches, many with water views. Lots range in size from 550-1100 square
metres and start at $295,000. Site office open daily - corner of Clarke and Montefiore streets, Catherine
Hill Bay.

Phone 1800 888 325. beachesCHB.com.au

Newcastle a painless commute from bay

With his work in Newcastle, Swansea-based Scott Woodbury can afford to make beachside Catherine
Hill Bay his permanent home. He will take the 30-minute daily drive to his job in the health system in
Newcastle and when he needs a break from the relaxed coastal lifestyle, he can drive down to Sydney
in 90 minutes. "The double-lane road system to Newcastle and Sydney makes the journey either way
very good," says Woodbury, 50.
Living close to Catherine Hill Bay, he has kept his eye on plans for the old colliery site for years. "When
I knew the developers weren't going to disturb the natural bushland and that the project was going to be
environmentally friendly, I decided to take a look at what was on offer," he says. In February, he bought
a 570-square-metre block for $265,000. The Rose Group have implemented design guidelines for their
Beaches project so that while the houses will not be cookie-cutter in appearance, they will need to
adhere to carefully vetted guidelines. Woodbury has confidence in the developers and likes the designs
he's seen. "They're not over the top and they'll make this a quality estate," he says. "I think it's a good
idea."

While no longer a surfer, he's looking forward to visiting Moonee and Fraser beaches and walking in the
bushland of Munmorah state conservation area.

Anna Anderson

Quality: Scott Woodbury likes the design of the Beaches project. Photo: Max Mason-Hubers

OR TRY THESE ...

The Shoal, Shoal Bay, Port Stephens

Designed by Marchese Partners and developed by Veritas, The Shoal complex is about 100 paces from
the sand of Shoal Bay. Still available are 28 two-bedroom apartments (70-90 sq m) from $400,000 and
two penthouses (155-162 sq m) from $1,095,000. Strata levies from $680 pq for two-beds, and from
$1880 pq for penthouses. Due for completion June 2015.

Phone 1300 133 311. theshoal.com.au

Kiama Place, 12 Elimatta Place, Kiama

All 32 duplexes, designed by PSEC Projects with interiors by Weir Phillips architects, have four
bedrooms and double garages. Sizes range from 148 to 156 square metres inside and all have
balconies, some have a study. Prices range from $635,000 to $650,000. Construction starts mid-year
and completion is due by mid-2016. Phone Vodaland, 1800 887 880. Kiamaplace.com.au

IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

irreal : Residential Real Estate | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ireest :
Real Estate
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New
South Wales
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020140502ea530004c

Page98of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.