New abattoir at Cataby mooted

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

EARLY GENERAL NEWS
New abattoir at Cataby mooted

685 words
11 December 2014
Farm Weekly
FFARMW
4
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

A NEW joint venture to build a northern WA abattoir has prompted hopes for an expanded Malaysian
export market.

Australia-based Carpenter Beef general manager John Berkefeld confirmed with Farm Weekly this
week that the company has entered into a joint venture with Malaysian companyBrahim's Holdings
Bhd to build the abattoir at Joanna Plains, 160 kilometres north of Perth.

The companies signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) in Australia last week for the
development and co-ownership of the Cataby Abattoir.

Mr Berkefeld said the details where confidential, but the MoU was good news for the State.

"It takes a long time for these things to come together," Mr Berkefeld said.

"The MoU is good timing and it is a good opportunity for the State."
Carpenter Beef is owned by former coal tycoon Ric Stowe, said Carpenter Beef chief financial officer
Brian Pilossof.
The company has begun works at the Joanna Plains site, off the Brand Highway, and is finalising the
development of the abattoir.
In a statement Brahim's said the Cataby Abattoir would be designed to meet all Chinese, European
Union, United States' Department of Agriculture and halal requirements.

Brahim's will take the majority of products produced.

"The plant will have a capacity of 100,000 cattle per annum on a single shift basis, with a 400-head
per day capacity," the statement said.

Mr Berkefeld said the source of the cattle would be directed by Malaysian market requirements.

Meat and Livestock Australia figures for 2013 show Australian shipments to Malaysia were 15,935
tonnes swt, up three per cent year-on-year, with manufacturing beef making up almost half the
volume at 7,562t swt up 4pc over the period.

While there has been steady growth in recent years to Malaysia, further growth is expected to be
constrained by the likely strong demand for similar cuts from China and Indonesia, and the
anticipated high manufacturing beef prices caused by the US drought.

While Malaysia is an established market, it is relatively small.

It has the potential to expand over the coming years, with strong economic conditions, an expanding
population and rising incomes.
Brahim's will hold a 49pc stake in the abattoir while Carpenter Beef will hold the remaining stake.

Page155of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Brahim's first stage of construction would include building a four-way cut facility.
It will need to invest a further $15 million (RM43.55 million) to make the entire plant fully operational,
which could be achieved within six to nine months.

Both parties agree it is essential that the project receives the Department of Islamic Development
Malaysia's (Jakim) endorsement and certification.
WAFarmers president Dale Park said the abattoir had been on the drawing board for more than five
years, and with so much positivity coming from the State's industries, a company has finally put its
resources behind it.

"People don't put their money behind something if they don't think they will get something out of it,'' he
said.

"In this case, it seems like they have found someone to put the plans in motion.

"Being situated in Cataby, one would think the cattle would be sourced north of Perth, but it all
depends on what they will pay.

"All this positive news, this has created confidence. It is definitely more good news for the industry."
Mr Stowe advertised for sale his rural land empire in the early 2000s, worth more than $130 million.
This included his 2470-hectare luxury accommodation and equine property Devereaux Farm,
Bullsbrook, where Mr Stowe indulged his passion for polo.
The property was first listed for sale in 2010 by receivers PPB Advisory, following the reported failure
of Mr Stowe's mining operation Griffin Coal.
The property was later sold in 2013.
Separate to the receivership sale, Elders was appointed to market Mr Stowe's 24,000 hectares of
grazing country north of Perth.
Other properties owned through Mr Stowe's company included stations such as Emu Downs,
Cantabilling Station and Dandallen.

tambw : Brahim's Holdings Berhad
i412 : Animal Slaughtering/Processing | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp : Consumer Goods |
ifood : Food Products | i77003 : Warehousing/Storage | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
mlvstk : Livestock/Meat Markets | c184 : Joint Ventures | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | m14 : Commodity Markets | m141 : Agricultural
Commodity Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
malay : Malaysia | austr : Australia | perth : Perth | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific |
asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FFARMW0020141210eacb0001d

CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page156of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.