PEP in a $24.6m fee bonanza if Spotless hits target

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
PEP in a $24.6m fee bonanza if Spotless hits target

BRIDGET CARTER
705 words
5 May 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
15
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

AUSTRALIAN private equity firmPacific Equity Partners will write itself a $24.6 million cheque in
advisory fees for the float of its catering and management services firm Spotless if it secures a price
valuing the business at $1.85 billion.
The float is part of a multi-million-dollar pipeline of Australian and New Zealand companies PEP
plans to sell or list on the public market in the next year, as it positions itself to reap millions in fees
and cash from the sale of businesses.

Movie company Hoyts, Peters Ice Cream, food business Griffins, Link Market Services and SCA
Hygiene are among those in PEP’s stable expected to hit the market in the months ahead as the
group — with at least $6bn in funds under management — searches for new investment
opportunities.

According to the prospectus, PEP Advisory would secure the $24.6m from the Spotless proceeds,
based on the assumption that the final share price was set at the midpoint of the indicative price
range.

Spotless released its prospectus to the market last week for an initial public offering to raise $1bn,
revealing shares would be priced between $1.60 to $1.85 each, which would take its market
capitalisation to between $1.8bn and $1.9bn, making it the largest float so far this year.

PEP Advisory’s fees would be paid for services provided in connection with the offer, according to the
prospectus documents, and it is understood that they would be taken from the proceeds of the deal,
but some of the money would be paid back to the shareholders in PEP funds and co-investors,
according to one source.
The company declined to comment on the payment.

Sources said sponsors typically paid themselves a 1 per cent advisory fee, which could often
subsequently be partly distributed among co-investors and other shareholders.

But other market participants described the $24.6m as a staggering amount and questioned why the
private equity firm would reap such a large amount in advisory fees, given it had also appointed
investment bankers.
Spotless will be another test for PEP company investors, badly burnt in the float of Collins Foods in
2011 when shares crashed on the back of a profit warning shortly after the KFC operator listed with
shares priced at $2.50.
The company now trades at $1.91.

But PEP was somewhat redeemed by a subsequent listing of the $1.8bn credit checking
companyVeda Group on December 5 when shares closed 40 per cent ahead of its $1.25 offer price
on its debut.

Page58of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The firm paid more than $800m with Merrill Lynch to take Veda private in 2007 and, amid pressure
on private equity groups to keep skin in the game, PEP is holding 63.5 per cent of the company until
full-year results are released next August.

Spotless will float on the Australian Securities Exchange on May 23, two days before the bookbuild,
and while the group is understood to have strong support for international investors, local groups
have described the asking price as expensive, with the company asking substantially more since it
bought the business for $1.3bn in 2012.
Investment banks Citi, UBS and Deutsche are the joint lead managers for the IPO, while Highbury
Partnership is exclusive finance adviser and Evans and Partners co-lead manager.

Meanwhile, advisers for Insentia, Macquarie Group, were meeting with fund managers today for an
IPO of the company, expected to have a market value of up to $500m.

Intueri Education Group, one of New Zealand’s largest private vocational educational companies,
was expected to be dually listed in Australia and New Zealand following strong investor support
locally and in Hong Kong on the back of its recent roadshow.

It is seeking to raise $185m, with advisers Macquarie Group and UBS. Last year, the five key players
at Anchorage Capital Partners were expected to reap a Christmas bonus worth about $17m each in
performance fees from the float of Dick Smith, according to estimates, in what was thought to be the
most lucrative Australian private equity deal of the year.

IPO’s dream run P17

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

peprt : Pacific Equity Partners
i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150203 : Private Equity | ialtinv : Alternative Investments
| ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
c1711 : Initial Public Offerings | c14 : Stock Listings | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | c02 :
Corporate Changes | c17 : Funding/Capital | c171 : Share Capital | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio
: Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140504ea550003s

Page59of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.