Billionaire Leader of ‘Mafia-Style’ Gang Sentenced to Die

CLM
SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Sinosphere
World; Asia Pacific
Billionaire Leader of ‘Mafia-Style’ Gang Sentenced to Die

By MICHAEL FORSYTHE
613 words
23 May 2014
NYT Blogs
NYTB
English
© 2014 The New York Times Company. All rights reserved

A Chinese tycoon and his brother have been sentenced to death for murder and running a “mafia-style”
gang that engaged in a two-decade crime spree, accumulating a business empire amounting to more
than $6 billion.

Liu Han, 48, and his younger brother, Liu Wei, were sentenced on Friday by a court in the central
province of Hubei, with the punishment announced on China Central Television. The two were at the
apex of a gang of 36 people charged with crimes including intentional injury and the murders of eight
people. Three other gang members were also sentenced to death, with the rest handed sentences
including life imprisonment and suspended death penalties, the provincial government reported on its
news website.

Mr. Liu’s arrest in March of last year had international implications because he was in talks to buy an
Australian mining company, Sundance Resources. The deal collapsed the following month. In 2009,
his flagship company, Sichuan Hanlong Group, bought a controlling stake in another Australian mining
company, Moly Mines. The Sichuan Hanlong Group was also punished, with a fine of almost $50
million, for providing false information to banks to obtain loans and other infractions, the state news
agency Xinhua reported on its microblog site.
#Chinese court Fri sentenced former mining tycoon Liu Han to death, 1st trials of 36 mafia-like gang
led by Liu. http://t.co/CqNaHagyT2
— People’s Daily,China (@PDChina)23 May 14

Prosecutors painted a picture of two brothers who would stop at nothing to build their wealth, which
amounted to 40 billion renminbi, or $6.4 billion, Xinhua reported in February, when the gang was
charged. The brothers’ business operations ranged from gambling to construction materials.

“Liu Han and Liu Wei were deeply evil,’’ the People’s Intermediary Court in Xianning said in announcing
the sentence. “Their means were extremely cruel, their impact on society was extremely bad.”

Liu Wei, a torchbearer for the 2008 Beijing Olympics, is accused of ordering the killings of three people
in 2009 at an open-air tea house in his hometown of Guanghan, in the southwestern province of
Sichuan, Xinhua reported in February. He went into hiding after the suspects arrested for the killings
said he was responsible. Last March he was arrested, with Xinhua saying he helped his older brother
evade capture.

In rounding up the gang members last year, the police said they confiscated three grenades, 20 guns,
677 bullets and more than 100 knives, Xinhua reported in February. The Liu brothers and their
associates had fleets of cars including Rolls-Royces, Bentleys and Ferraris, Xinhua said.

While the charges and verdict were extraordinary in themselves, Liu Han’s possible ties to the family of
the former Chinese security chief, Zhou Yongkang, raised the profile of the trial. In February, the
respected Chinese business magazine Caixin reported that Mr. Liu and Mr. Zhou’s son, Zhou Bin, had
a business relationship in Sichuan, where Zhou Yongkang served as the top official from 1999 to 2002.

Page144of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Zhou Bin helped Mr. Liu overcome regulatory obstacles in acquiring a power company, and Mr. Liu
had bought a tourism property from Mr. Zhou, the magazine reported. Several other Sichuan business
executives and former officials tied to Zhou Yongkang’s family are also facing prosecution.

Zhou Yongkang was detained amid a graft investigation in December, The New York Times reported.
Should he be charged and tried, he would be the highest-ranking Chinese leader to be prosecuted for
corruption since the Communist Party came to power in 1949.

Kiki Zhao contributed research.

NS

RE

IPD
PUB
AN

c12 : Corporate Crime/Legal Action | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcrim : Crime/Courts | gdeath :
Death Penalty/Capital Punishment | gorgnz : Organized Crime | nblog : Blogs | ncolu : Columns | gcat :
Political/General News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News
Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | usny : New York State | hubei : Hubei | sichu : Sichuan | apacz : Asia
Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China |
devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz :
North America | usa : United States | use : Northeast U.S.
News
The New York Times Company
Document NYTB000020140523ea5n000gp

Page145of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.