Jewel developers jump on the JV bandwagon

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

CommercialProperty
Jewel developers jump on the JV bandwagon

GREG BROWN
383 words
23 August 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
38
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

EXCLUSIVE CHINESE giants Wanda Commercial Properties and Ridong Group are hunting for
more joint-venture opportunities in southeast Queensland after the companies joined forces last week
on the $1 billion Jewel high-rise project on the Gold Coast.
The Hong Kong-listed Wanda, which is the property branch of Beijing-headquartered Dalian Wanda
Group, is committing $1.7bn worth of capital to Australia.

Its investment is seeded with a 55 per cent stake in the Jewel hotel, apartment and office
development.

Wanda was considering deploying more capital to other projects Ridong was lining up on the Gold
Coast and in Brisbane, sources said. Ridong’s local arm, RDG, holds a 45ha site at Nerang on the
Gold Coast that it bought last year, for which it has yet to announce development plans.
It is also negotiating to buy more Queensland sites.

Contacted by The Weekend Australian, RDG chief executive Steven Haggart confirmed there had
been “a broad discussion” about doing more projects with Wanda. “In terms of (Wanda) committing
($1.7bn) of money to this market I couldn’t say in any truth whether it would all be just to do with us or
whether it would be in other parts of the country,” Mr Haggart said.

“Jewel is the only thing approved and ready to go, so that is the test case. “We’ve always seen
ourselves as being a group that can lead the way into this market and then be able to offer the
opportunities for other groups to get involved through us, and that is essentially what we are doing.

“We’ve got a range of projects that we are looking at, a lot of those projects are commercially
sensitive in the sense that we are trying to line them up,” Mr Haggart said.

In Sydney, Wanda has been tipped to be the party in due diligence on 201 Elizabeth Street, which is
being sold by Dexus Property Group and Perron Group.
But Wanda said this week that it was unaware of the transaction.The Dalian Wanda Group —
headed by China’s richest man, Wang Jianlin — has embarked on an ambitious international
expansion, buying the US’s biggest movie chain, AMC Entertainment, Sunseeker yachts and two
London high-rises.

CO
IN
NS
RE

dwgrcl : Dalian Wanda Group Company Limited
i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | dalian : Dalian | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | china : China | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :

Page217of416©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | liaon :
Liaoning
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140822ea8n00097

PUB
AN

Page218of416©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.