Public service

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Opinion
Public service

1,248 words
2 December 2014
Launceston Examiner
FEXANP
Examiner First Edition
15
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

Public service

I FEEL sorry for those who are affected by the selfishness of our public servants and their unions.

It is not just the school kids and their parents who will suffer from industrial action.

It will be their fellow workmates who lose their jobs because of the greed of unions and their
members in not taking a wage freeze for 12 months.

The same people now using industrial action to make a statement are the same people who let their
unions send a government broke by accepting wages that the private sector can only dream about
and conditions they would find impossible to attain.

Will their unions be making job cuts when hundreds of their members lose their jobs? I doubt it.

Surely a pay freeze, legally drawn up would be better than watching your fellow workers lose their
jobs.

Evidently that is not the case in the majority of the public service.

Dog eat dog seems to come to mind.

I notice the Police Union accepted a pay freeze so they could protect the jobs of their colleagues.

The remainder of the public service will be stabbing each other in the back in the hope of retaining
their jobs.

Sad really.
— B. A. ELLIS, West Launceston.

More credit deserved

IT IS regrettable that Barry Prismall was so one-dimensional in his condemnation of contemporary
Australian culture (November 26).
While agreeing that a moral compass and the milk of human kindness are often found lacking, we
can think of Tasmanians volunteering for service, of Hobart opening its arms to Pontville asylum
seekers and young people at UTAS working hard to acquire valuable doctorates that will contribute
to the future development of our state.

Just a few positive examples.

Let's strike a balance between bleak social analysis and well-founded optimism.

Page79of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Credit where it's due.

— TRISH HINDMARSH, state president, St Vincent de Paul, Invermay.

Stop the stopwork talks

LAST week (Thursday, November 27) thousands of public servants decided to attend stopwork
meetings across the state including teachers, health workers, paramedics, park rangers and
TasTAFE workers.

When will they understand that they are exactly that, "public servants", government employees.
Like any business, it is the government's prerogative to determine what they can afford and how
many people they want to employ to provide services.

Since 2000 the size of the Tasmanian public service has increased by 25 per cent.

Taking into consideration the 40,000 increase in population, that equates to one public servant for
every 18 Tasmanians, compared with every 21 in 2000, an increase of 13 per cent.

The public service isn't there merely to provide employment for the lucky 28,000, it is there to provide
cost-effective services to all Tasmanians.

We have to cut the cloth according to our means.

And then to hear that many of these workers "had to make other arrangements" for their children
because the government had designated Thursday as a pupil-free day.

They wanted to have stopwork meetings, their children are their responsibility and they shouldn't rely
on schools as child care centres.

— STEPHEN COOMBS, Trevallyn.

Bemused by name change

THE QVMAG and Launceston City Council management provides a constant source of bemusement
and bewilderment.

Rosita Gallash's story comes with the implication that LCC is using the Paterson Street West car
park as a testing ground for art gallery out-of-town audiences' clairvoyance powers.

The marketing here is puzzling given that the signage inviting people to "park here" for the QVMAG
Royal Park is inside the car park rather than outside where it might be found by tourists and others
looking for a parking spot.

The name change denials, given that its there in maroon and white despite the mayor saying he
hadn't heard anything about it, is bemusing spin.

Then, general manager Robert Dobrynski's claims that such a thing as a name change isn't under
consideration is bewildering.
I'm here to tell you that the QVMAG's "name change" is Launceston's worst kept secret.

It's also said that the "Queen Victoria" bit has long since past its use-by-date.

And that's true.

Right now there would also be quite a lot of postcolonial validity in changing the name and much
more than that.

However, if you can read something in the maroon and white council branding, and it makes
historical sense that the name should change.

It is bewildering to read the mayor and GM telling us that nothing is really changing.

— RAY NORMAN, Trevallyn.

Leave the Gorge alone

ALONG with a number of others I firmly believe that our council should leave the Gorge as it is.

Page80of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.As the saying goes, "If it isn't broken then don't try to fix it".

Over the years, people have marvelled at such an attraction provided by nature on our very doorstep.

All that is required is to put more water back into it.

The council and others were conned years ago with the amount of water that would flow once a dam
was built, not many on the council, or others including myself, at the time understood just how much
water a cusec was and how insignificant it would be.

Don't waste our rates coming up with fancy man-made ideas for the Gorge.

— L. CARROLL, Launceston.
China ties good for Tassie
TASMANIA has been caught up in the excitement of hosting the President of China and many of his
entourage of officials in what was a great and successful occasion.

The Examiner, in covering the event, captured the happy, relaxed atmosphere and general sense of
well-being of all who took part.

Forging new ties and looking forward to free trade benefits for both countries opens many doors.

It is time to look ahead at some of the strategies needed to ensure the best outcome for Tasmania.
China is encouraged to invest and we have a wide range of possibilities for a potential investor.

Land is a major interest and without restricting their ownership thought needs to be given to the
process of purchase.

Land usage conditions should be approved by local government (this would probably be through any
development application). It would also be a requirement that local employment be sought.

One way to ensure this would be through restriction of importation of labour.

Should local workers be unavailable, then employment conditions for all workers as per Tasmanian
requirements should apply.

If local suppliers are engaged to supply farm input together with local workers then this is beneficial
for our economy as the money would stay in Tasmania, which helps everyone.

This process may take time to implement but it signals a new and very bright future for Tasmania.
— M. CAMPBELL-SMITH, Launceston.

Where is oil price rage?

THE world's oil price per barrel has been slowly falling and has now dropped over 30 per cent per
barrel, so how come it's not reflected at the pumps?

As long as we continue blindly accepting this monstrous rip off, nothing will change, just where is the
rage?

— DON DAVEY, Launceston.

One law for all needed

MANDATORY sentences must be scrapped from the government's Assaults on Police Officer Bill,
the Law Society of Tasmania says (The Examiner, November 26).

I think we all agree on that, one law for everyone please.

— A. R. TROUNSON, Needles.

NS

RE
PUB

nedc : Commentaries/Opinions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : C&E
Executive News Filter
austr : Australia | tasman : Tasmania | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited

Page81of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AN

Document FEXANP0020141201eac20002v

Page82of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.