Peter Ickeringill Joins Baker & McKenzie in Melbourne

HD
CR
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Peter Ickeringill Joins Baker & McKenzie in Melbourne

Distributed by Contify.com
383 words
24 October 2014
India Investment News
ATINVT
English
Copyright © 2014. Contify.com

Oct. 24 -- US-based Baker & McKenzie issued the following news release:

Highly respected corporate lawyer and a former general counsel of the Daily Mail and General Trust
Group Peter Ickeringill will join global law firmBaker & McKenzie as a partner in its Melbourne
office.

Peter has advised boards, CEOs and other senior executives on major mergers and acquisitions,
particularly in the manufacturing, media and financial services sectors, for more than 30 years.
He has been based in some of the world's major commercial centres including London, Hong Kong,
Beijing and Melbourne, where he has been a partner of first-tier law firms and also a director and
general counsel for one of the largest global media groups.
"Peter's joining is a significant move for the Firm as we continue to grow our corporate practices,"
said Chris Freeland, Baker & McKenzie's Australian national managing partner. "Peter is one of the
most experienced lawyers in his field in Australia. He brings with him an unrivalled depth of
knowledge of the local M&A;, manufacturing, media and financial services markets, as well as a
strong international perspective having worked in the UK and China for many years."
On his appointment, Peter said: "Baker & McKenzie is the global firm against which all others are
measured. It sets the bar for brand recognition and reputation, worldwide service, industry
knowledge and practice depth. These qualities, together with the Firm's vast international network,
will enable me to meet the growing demands of my clients with the world's best practice
capabilities".

Peter's most recent deals include some of the largest in the country such as the establishment of
Orora Group and its demerger by scheme of arrangement from Amcor; Sinopec's acquisition of
joint venture interests in the East Timor Sea from AED Oil; the establishment of Daily Mail Australia
by joint venture between DMGT, Nine Entertainment and Mi9; and the acquisition of Nova
Entertainment by interests associated with Lachlan Murdoch.

Additionally, Peter volunteers for various community groups such as the Deafness Foundation, a
public charity devoted to the interests of the deaf and hearing impaired in Australia, and where he is
chairman and president.

Source: Baker & McKenzie

CO
IN
NS
RE

PUB

bakm : Baker & McKenzie
i835 : Legal Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Athena Information Solutions Pvt. Ltd.

Page67of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AN

Document ATINVT0020141025eaao0000d

Page68of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.