Can ASEAN become the global champion of sustainable growth?

HD Can ASEAN become the global champion of sustainable growth?
BY Nick Rowley, Professor, Sydney Democracy Network at University of Sydney
WC 937 words
PD 11 September 2014
SN The Conversation
SC CONVAU
LA
CY Copyright 2014. The Conservation Media Group.
LP

English

TD

If measured by political will and rhetoric, Australia’s relationship with Southeast Asia would undeniably be
in fine shape. Prime ministers as diverse as Paul Keating, Tony Abbott and Julia Gillard have all had much
to say on this relationship.

We see a commitment to understanding the economic and political dynamics of the “Asian Century”;
Abbott making Indonesia his first foreign trip as prime minister and describing his foreign policy focus as
“More Jakarta, less Geneva”; and Keating emphasising how such strategic regional relationships would
“energise” Australia’s national identity and role. No one could argue that Australia’s leaders aren’t at least
vocal on the powerful factors at play in the region.

The closeness and developing nature of these economic and political ties cannot be based solely on
crudely defined economic growth. Whether that growth helps alleviate poverty and creates the health,
transport, education and energy infrastructure that the growing populations of the region require will be a
major factor which either strengthens or weakens relations among ASEAN nations and with the wider
global economy.

In short, Southeast Asia is at the heart of the global challenge of achieving sustainable development.

The challenges of growth

For Australia, put simply, we are where we are: close to and part of a region that is undergoing exponential
economic growth.
Our focus on the emergence of China, with growth rates expected to continue above 7% and an economy
fueled by all the resources Australian can provide, neglects a broader truth: the projected average growth
rate for all countries in the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) is more than 5%.

This is a statistic of potentially greater importance. Insulated against the political and economic ebbs and
flows in any single country, Australia cannot afford to ignore the ASEAN countries. Indonesia is already
the 16th-largest economy in the world and is predicted to be ninth by 2030. Our future prime ministers will
have to get used to the drive into Jakarta from Soekarno–Hatta International Airport.

As Australia marks the 40th anniversary of our association with ASEAN, it is clear this relationship will only
become more important. In coming years, Australia will be buying more goods from the region and
providing products and services to the 600 million or so people living in Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia,
Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam.

Just as Malaysia and Australia are working together to find the missing flight MH370, so only through
closer regional cooperation can we achieve a more humane and effective approach to managing human
movements and develop better ways to tackle climate change and reverse biodiversity and species
decline.

Sadly, Southeast Asia leads the world not only in economic growth but also in number of threatened
species. The International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List shows that half of the top 20
countries for numbers of threatened species are in Asia. Indonesia has 183 mammal species at risk of
extinction, almost double the number for second-placed Mexico.

Recent policies offer hope

Page299of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Recent years have produced more positive signs. The development policies adopted by many Asian
economies have increasingly focused on the quality of growth and investment. Thailand’s five-year plan is
pursuing a new model of holistic people-oriented development. Indonesia aims to create “a country that is
prosperous, democratic and just”, while Cambodia seeks “growth, employment, equity and efficiency”.

These are fine words. Yet implementing them is not just a matter of effective governance and
implementation. It is critical for civil society, the private sector and government to have a more assertive
role in ensuring that growth means more than private profit for multinational firms.

https://62e528761d0685343e1c-
f3d1b99a743ffa4142d9d7f1978d9686.ssl.cf2.rackcdn.com/files/58621/width237/5bbpsb5s-
1410310830.jpg

It is heartening that Australian Environment Minister Greg Hunt, through convening a Southeast Asian
rainforest summit later this year, has recognised the opportunity to work with our nearest neighbours to
avoid further deforestation.
There is good reason: more than 100 million hectares of the world’s remaining pristine forests have been
lost since 2000. No multinational firm using packaging or buying paper and tissue products wants to be
associated with this.

We have seen effective campaigns and awareness-raising by environmental groups such as Greenpeace.
Some of the largest pulp and paper and palm oil companies have committed to previously unimaginably
ambitious and laudable “zero-deforestation” policies backed up by robust, well-resourced means for their
implementation. There is a chance that some of the richest habitats in the world can be saved.

Time will tell whether this is – again – more about marketing and market access than reversing
deforestation and adopting more sustainable business practices for good. One needs to be alert, but
achieving environmentally and socially sustainable growth in the region requires new partnerships
between government, the private sector and civil society. If achieved, it will be a vital part of reducing the
risks of climate change and creating a more resource-efficient and sustainable global economy.

And for the ASEAN nations, working with countries like Australia, a failure to demonstrate how to maintain
economic growth while protecting the environment and providing vital human services, will sadly mean
they and we, will all lose.

This article is based on a presentation by the author to a public forum on sustainable economic growth in
Southeast Asia tonight, September 11, at the Sydney Law School.

Nick Rowley receives funding from Asia Pulp and Paper as a consultant assisting the business implement
its forest conservation policy.

CO assean : Association of Southeast Asian Nations
NS

gnatcn : Nature Conservation | gpol : Domestic Politics | gcat : Political/General News | genv :
Environmental News | gpir : Politics/International Relations
indon : Indonesia | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | seasiaz : Southeast Asia

RE

PUB The Conversation Media Group Limited
AN Document CONVAU0020140911ea9b00009

Page300of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.