Political system failing rail, says Asciano boss

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Political system failing rail, says Asciano boss

Tim Binsted
520 words
24 October 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
18
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Logistics - Talks to sell minority stake in Patrick Ports ongoing

Asciano chief executive John Mullen said dilapidated country rail networks are not getting
badly-needed investment because politicians are hostage to a short-term electoral cycle that
favours road projects over rail.

As a ports and rail group Mr Mullen accepts he has a “huge vested interest” in promoting rail, but
he said millions of tonnes of grain are being pushed onto roads and adding to congestion because
the rail is so poor.

“The country rail lines have had no real investment for years and years. Rail is certainly being
outgunned by road,” Mr Mullen said.

“Most governments are struggling with budgets and upgrading of roads is highly visible to everyone
immediately.

The upgrading of rail is a long-term project and often exceeds the term of an elected government.”

East coast grains giant Grain Corp has been lobbying for years to get governments to upgrade
country rail lines.
Mr Mullen also said talks to sell a minority stake in his Patrick Ports business are ongoing, but he’s
in no rush. State-owned conglomerate China Merchants has been in long-running talks about
Patrick, which analysts valueat$2billionto$2.5billion.

“Container ships visiting Australia are part of a global network. We would like a seat at the table
where transactions are contemplated. We can’t become global overnight so we’ve been seeking
someone who’d like to invest in Australia, “Mr Mullen said.
“We have an asset that’s doing very well. It’s not that if we don’t [sell a stake]
weareintrouble.Ifittakesus12months rather two months so be it.”
His comments come as Asciano reported solid coal haulage volumes but weaker bulk, intermodal
and terminal and logistics volumes relative to market expectations.
Asciano’s Pacific National rail businesshauled40.6milliontonnes of coal in the three months to
September 30, up6.6percentontheyearpriorperiod.
Earlier this month China imposed a 3 per cent tariff on metallurgical coal
anda6percenttariffonthermalcoal.
The tariffs followed China’s ash and sulphur quality restrictions on coal, aimed at mitigating air
pollution.

Page84of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mr Mullen said he was concerned about anything that might impact his mining customers but
haulage volumes remain strong.

“All I can say about quality control and so on is that we didn’t get any calls from our customers and
we haven’t seen any big changes, “he said.

Tonnes hauled as opposed to contracted was 90 per cent for the quarter and is expected to remain
high.

Morgan Stanley said in a flash note that the high ratio means “coalminers continue to use volume to
offset pricing pressure”.

Asciano reaffirmed guidance for growth in earnings before interest and tax in 2014-15 to “be higher
than underlying EBIT growth of 5 per cent reportedin2013-14.”
The company said the integration of its two rail businesses running well and its cost-cutting
program is on track.
Asciano told investors in February it planned to double cost savings to $300 million by fiscal 2018.
Asciano shares rose 10¢ to $6.09 on Thursday.

CO
IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

ascian : Asciano Ltd.
itsp : Transportation/Shipping
gpol : Domestic Politics | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir :
Politics/International Relations
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141024eaao00001

Page85of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.