DAIRY RETURN

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
DAIRY RETURN

Z McMaugh
448 words
14 February 2014
Pastoral Times
MPASTO
M009
English
Copyright 2014. McPherson Media Group.

Local dairy farmers are feeling ‘‘a lot more confident’’ thanks to rising farm gate milk prices, according to
Murray Dairy chairman and Blighty farmer Malcolm Holm.
Farmers have enjoyed a 25 per cent increase this month, with southern Australian dairy farmers
averaging $6.50 a kilogram for milk solids.

Mr Holm said the average return for Murray Dairy suppliers was slightly higher but offset by higher input
costs.
The overall national milk production forecast for the 2013-14 season is for a reduction of up to two per
cent, with between nine and 9.2 billion litres of milk expected to be produced.

Mr Holm said the reduction could be linked to heat stress in animals, which can cause loss of appetite
and therefore the cow not producing as much milk.
He said, however, Murray Dairy suppliers were on par with last year’s production figures.
Despite many challenges, Mr Holm said the dairy industry was looking positive.
‘‘Many farmers have found seasonal conditions and milk prices a challenge, but generally farmers are
feeling more confident because of the milk price increase,’’ Mr Holm said.
‘‘Milk production is remaining fairly stable locally, and with the increased cash flow coming in perhaps
people are consolidating their position a bit more.
‘‘We need to look at where the milk price is going (next season) because there are still drought and
global financial crisis issues to contend with.

‘‘Temporary water prices, which are double what they were a few years ago, are also increasing costs
and we’ve had a dryer than average spring, which affects fodder yields and quality.’’
Mr Holm said the better milk price would help ease some of the challenges, adding that an increased
interest in processed food production as a whole had helped ‘‘renew interest in the industry’’.
Dairy Australia maintains there is greater demand for Australian dairy products in China and other
countries that have experienced production shortfalls.
On global currency movements, Dairy Australia commercial and research analysis manager Norman
Repacholi said the weaker Australian dollar was likely to place upward price pressure on imports such as
fertiliser, fuel and grain prices.
‘‘With Australia’s supermarket milk and dairy spreads, volumes and values are remaining stable, cheese
volumes are up, but discounting of chilled (block) cheeses has shown a slight decline in the total category
value,’’ Mr Repacholi said.

Page266of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.‘‘Despite last season’s challenges, Australian dairy has scored international headlines with the
competition to acquire Warrnambool Cheese and Butter and a rush of other major transactions.
‘‘The intense business interest in the potential of Australian dairy in the region reinforces how well
regarded our sector is for its quality produce.’’

IN

i010010502 : Dairy Cattle Farming | i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i413 : Dairy Products | i0 :
Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | i0100105 : Cattle Farming | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp :
Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products | ilsfarm : Livestock Farming
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB McPherson Media Group
AN

Document MPASTO0020140213ea2e0000u

Page267of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.