Cashed-up investors on prowl for takeovers

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Cashed-up investors on prowl for takeovers

TONY KAYE
455 words
2 February 2014
The Sunday Times (Perth)
SUNTIP
SundayTimes
61
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

IF ALL the financial forecasts are correct, the conditions are just right for a surge in corporate
takeover deals across Australia this year.
An acceleration of the global economic recovery, rising business confidence, a lower Australian
dollar, and a growing list of cashed-up corporate investors eager to buy up premium, undervalued
assets, are likely to propel merger and acquisition activity.

Add to this factors such as low interest rates and improved funding options, and general expectations
that the Australian economy will slow to some degree making organic growth harder to come by –
and growth by acquisition could appear very attractive.
Cashed-up private equity firms and venture funds, including from the US and Europe, are likely to be
key takeover players.

Foreign companies are keen to invest here – a fact that will no doubt keep the decision makers at the
Foreign Investment Review Board busy. The FIRB was tested last year when it scrutinised, and
subsequently rejected, a $3.4 billion offer for grain co-operative GrainCorp by Canada’s Archer
Daniels Midland. It deemed it not to be in the national interest.
But scores of other foreign bids have been approved, including a large number from China.
Just in the last few days, the Canadian dairy giant Saputo has tightened its takeover hold on
Victoria’s Warrnambool Cheese and Butter – with its $530 million deal enough to stave off stiff
competition from Australian bidding rivals Bega Cheese and the Murray Goulburn Co-operative.
Figures just released by the research firm Dealogic show 1393 M&A deals involving Australian
companies, with a combined value of $US86 billion, were announced last year.
The biggest was the $7.5 billion acquisition of Singapore Power’s Australian energy assets by
State Grid, China’s key power distributor, followed by the $7 billion restructure of the Westfield
property group, and the $5.3 billion sale of Port Botany and Port Kembla.

More big deals are on the cards, with infrastructure assets one of the biggest areas identified as the
federal and state governments move to privatise industrial operations ranging from electricity
generation and distribution networks to hospitals, roads, railway lines and rolling stock, to ports.
While some experts are predicting that the mining sector won’t be a major area of takeover activity,
the devaluing effect of lower prices for some metals commodities and a lower Australian dollar will
put many resources companies firmly into the bidding zone.

Indeed, of the current takeover deals under way involving Australian-listed companies, a high
percentage relate to mining companies.There are plenty of potential takeover deals. It’s a case of
picking the trends and buying into the opportunities.

Page51of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

RE

PUB
AN

c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | c182 : Asset Transactions | cacqu : Acquisitions | npred :
Economic Predictions/Forecasts | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry
News Filter
austr : Australia | perth : Perth | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | waustr : Western
Australia
News Ltd.
Document SUNTIP0020140201ea2200023

Page52of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.