*S&P Dwngds Fonterra To 'A' On Hghr Risk Appetite; Otlk Stable

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

*S&P Dwngds Fonterra To 'A' On Hghr Risk Appetite; Otlk Stable

1,744 words
29 August 2014
15:34
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

29 Aug 2014 01:34 ET Press Release: S&P Dwngds Fonterra To 'A' On Hghr Risk Appetite; Otlk Stable

The following is a press release from
Standard & Poor's:
MELBOURNE (Standard & Poor's) Aug. 29, 2014--Standard & Poor's Ratings
Services said today that it had lowered its long-term rating on Fonterra
Co-operative Group Ltd. to 'A' from 'A+', and affirmed the 'A-1' short-term
rating. The outlook on the long-term rating is stable. At the same time, we
lowered the rating on Fonterra's subordinated notes to 'A-' from 'A'. We
also
lowered the ratings on its Chinese renminbi notes to 'A' from 'A+' and the
Greater China regional scale ratings to 'cnAA+' from 'cnAAA'. The downgrades
follow Fonterra's announcement of a proposed equity holding in Chinese
company
Beingmate.
"Fonterra's proposed sizable shareholding in a commercial company operating
in
China indicates a financial risk appetite that is more aggressive than what
we
had factored into the previous 'A+' rating," Standard & Poor's credit
analyst
Brenda Wardlaw said. This is notwithstanding the fact that the proposed
transaction does not affect Fonterra's effective subordination of milk
payments to suppliers and its resultant discretion in setting the estimated
forecast milk price.
The proposal involves Fonterra acquiring a shareholding (via a tender
process)
of up to 20% in Beingmate. A distribution agreement with Beingmate will
facilitate growth in sales of Fonterra's New Zealand-manufactured infant
formula in the growing Chinese market. A joint-venture arrangement for
ownership of Fonterra's Darnum manufacturing plant in Australia is also
proposed, with Beingmate acquiring a 51% ownership interest. The net
investment cost will exceed NZ$600 million. The proposal is subject to
regulatory review in both China and Australia.
This transaction is occurring at a time when Fonterra is also undertaking
large investments in plant expansion and optimization in New Zealand, which

Page192of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.would cost about NZ$555 million over the next few years. In addition, global
dairy product prices are currently weak, resulting in a reduction in the
estimated forecast price of milk to NZ$6.00 per kilogram milk-solids early
in
this season, from NZ$7.00 per kilogram.
We acknowledge that the sourcing of product for distribution via the
partnership from New Zealand milk means the pricing flexibility afforded
through subordination will not be affected. However, the scale of the
proposed
acquisition; a reliance on dividends from the equity holding, rather than
having direct control over cash flows; higher leverage in the short-term
from
this transaction; and the capital expenditure, worsen Fonterra's credit
quality to the 'A' rating level.
Ms. Wardlaw added: "The stable rating outlook reflects our view that the
effective subordination of the company's payments to its
supplier-shareholders
remains entrenched within Fonterra's business model. Implicit within the
ratings is our expectation that future investments are unlikely to change
the
proportion of milk supplied from New Zealand materially."
If Fonterra were to undertake further material debt-funded transactions,
particularly in higher-risk geographies that alter the supply mix that may
also undermine the subordination benefit, downward pressure on the rating
could occur.
An upward rating trend is unlikely, as it would require an increase in
lender
protection from the subordination benefit. We consider this scenario as
unlikely, however, given that Fonterra's long-term growth strategy will
inevitably include greater expansion outside its co-operative supplier base
in
New Zealand, in addition to organic growth in its home base.
RELATED CRITERIA AND RESEARCH
Related Criteria
Corporate Issuers, Jan. 2, 2014

-- Methodology And Assumptions: Liquidity Descriptors for Global
-- Corporate Methodology: Ratios and Adjustments, Nov. 19, 2013
-- Methodology For Linking Short-Term And Long-Term Ratings For
-- Methodology: Management And Governance Credit Factors For Corporate
-- Methodology: Business Risk/Financial Risk Matrix Expanded, Sept. 18,

Corporate, Insurance, And Sovereign Issuers, May 7, 2013
Entities And Insurers, Nov. 13, 2012

2012

-- 2008 Corporate Criteria: Analytical Methodology, April 15, 2008
-- 2008 Corporate Criteria: Rating Each Issue, April 15, 2008
-- 2008 Corporate Criteria: Commercial Paper, April 15, 2008

Standard & Poor's (Australia) Pty. Ltd. holds Australian financial services
licence number 337565 under the Corporations Act 2001. Standard & Poor's
credit ratings and related research are not intended for and must not be
distributed to any person in Australia other than a wholesale client (as
defined in Chapter 7 of the Corporations Act).
Complete ratings information is available to subscribers of RatingsDirect at
www.globalcreditportal.com and at www.spcapitaliq.com. All ratings affected
by
this rating action can be found on Standard & Poor's public Web site at
www.standardandpoors.com. Use the Ratings search box located in the left

Page193of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.column.
Primary Credit Analyst: Brenda E Wardlaw, Melbourne (61) 3-9631-2074;
Secondary Contact: Sarah Harkins, CFA, Melbourne (61) 3 9631 2189;

brenda.wardlaw@standardandpoors.com

sarah.harkins@standardandpoors.com

No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations,
model, software, or other application or output therefrom) or any part
thereof
(Content) may be modified, reverse engineered, reproduced, or distributed in
any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without
the prior written permission of Standard & Poor's Financial Services LLC or
its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any
unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party providers, as
well
as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees, or agents
(collectively
S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness, or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors
or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the
results obtained from the use of the Content, or for the security or
maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an "as
is" basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES,
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR
DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT'S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED, OR THAT THE
CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no
event
shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect,
incidental,
exemplary, compensatory, punitive, special or consequential damages, costs,
expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income
or
lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by negligence) in
connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of
such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the
Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not
statements of fact. S&P's opinions, analyses, and rating acknowledgment
decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or
sell
any securities or to make any investment decisions, and do not address the
suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content
following publication in any form or format.
relied
on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment, and experience of the
user, its management, employees, advisors, and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or
an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has
obtained
information from sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an
audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of
any information it receives.
To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to
acknowledge

The Content should not be

Page194of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain
regulatory purposes, S&P reserves the right to assign, withdraw, or suspend
such acknowledgement at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties
disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the assignment, withdrawal, or
suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage
alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other
in
order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective
activities. As a result, certain business units of S&P may have information
that is not available to other S&Pbusiness units. S&P has established
policies and procedures to maintain the confidentiality of certain nonpublic
information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally
from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves
the
right to disseminate its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and
analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free
of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com and www.globalcreditportal.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via
S&P
publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about
our
ratings fees is available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
Any Passwords/user IDs issued by S&P to users are single user-dedicated and
may ONLY be used by the individual to whom they have been assigned.
No sharing of passwords/user IDs and no simultaneous access via the same
password/user ID is permitted. To reprint, translate, or use the data or
information other than as provided herein, contact Client Services,
55 Water Street, New York, NY 10041; (1) 212-438-7280 or by e-mail to:
29 Aug 2014 01:34 ET Press Release: S&P Dwngds Fonterra To 'A' On Hghr -2-

research_request@standardandpoors.com.
Copyright (c) 2014 by
Standard & Poor's Financial Services LLC.
All rights reserved.

29 Aug 2014 01:43 ET *S&P Cuts Fonterra Co-operative Group Long-Term to A From A+; Outlook
Stable
29 Aug 2014 01:43 ET *S&P: Cut to Fonterra Rating Follow Company's Proposed Equity Holding in
China's Beingmate

29 Aug 2014 01:43 ET *S&P: Fonterra's Proposed Holding Indicates Financial Risk Appetite More
Aggressive Than Was Factored Into Former A+ Rating

(MORE TO FOLLOW) Dow Jones Newswires (212-416-2800)

August 29, 2014 01:43 ET (05:43 GMT)

CO
IN
NS

foncop : Fonterra Co-operative Group Limited
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | ifood : Food Products | icnp : Consumer Goods | i413 : Dairy Products
c174 : Corporate Credit Ratings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News
| nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | c17 : Funding/Capital | c172 : Corporate Debt Instruments |
cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News
Filter

Page195of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

PUB
AN

austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | nz : New Zealand | usa : United States | victor : Victoria (Australia)
| apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North America
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document DJDN000020140829ea8t000hg

Page196of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.