VIRGIN GROUP ANNOUNCES PLANS TO MAKE WAVES IN THE CRUISE INDUSTRY

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

VIRGIN GROUP ANNOUNCES PLANS TO MAKE WAVES IN THE CRUISE INDUSTRY

907 words
5 December 2014
00:01
Press Association National Newswire
PRESSA
English
(c)2014, The Press Association, All Rights Reserved

NEW YORK, December 4, 2014 /PRNewswire/ --

Virgin Group, the Branson family-owned branded investment group, today announced the formation of
Virgin Cruises, its new cruise line business, as well as the appointment of a CEO and its lead investment
partner, Bain Capital. Financial terms of the transaction are not being disclosed.

     (Logo: http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20141204/720060 )

Proven industry leader Tom McAlpin will join Virgin Cruises as CEO and will head the management team.
Most recently, Tom has been President and CEO of The World, Residences at Sea. Tom also served as
President of Disney Cruise Line having joined as part of the founding management team. 

Virgin Cruises will be headquartered in the Miami/Fort Lauderdale area and plans to design and construct
two new world class cruise ships. At this time, the company has not disclosed when it will start operating
for competitive reasons. As part of one of the world's most recognized and respected brands, Virgin
Cruises will offer guests an outstanding experience and service aimed at broadening consumer targets for
the cruise market.

Virgin Group Founder Sir Richard Branson said, "We plan to shake up the cruise industry and deliver a
holiday that customers will absolutely love. They'll be sailing on the latest ships offering great quality, a
real sense of fun, and many exciting activities all delivered with the famed Virgin service."

Stephen Pagliuca, a Managing Director with Bain Capital, said, "From our earliest conversations with the
Virgin team, we recognized there is a unique opportunity here to help build the next great cruise line
serving travelers from around the world.  We know that thanks to the strategic vision laid out by our
collective team - and now under the guidance of Tom McAlpin - Virgin Cruises will help reshape
consumers' expectations of what a cruise experience can be.  All of us at Bain Capital are thrilled to
partner with the Virgin team on this compelling opportunity."

Tom McAlpin said, "Cruise guests deserve something better and different to what is being offered today,
and Virgin Cruises is committed to creating breathtaking experiences for them and a new generation of
guests. Opportunities like this do not come often, so I am very excited to lead this business and introduce
the Virgin brand to the cruise industry, as it has always put customers at the heart of what it does."

Virgin Group has partnered with one of the world's leading private investment firms, Bain Capital, to work
on this new venture. The partnership is committed to exploring the creation of a global cruise business
and setting new industry standards.

Ryan Cotton, a Principal with Bain Capital, said, "We are pleased to pursue this exciting opportunity with
Virgin, one of the world's most respected and iconic brands. With a small number of global players, an
experience in need of refreshing, and consumers ready for something new and exciting, the industry
exhibits all the characteristics of one that is ripe for a new entrant. Drawing on our long history of growing
and building great companies, we are confident that together with Virgin and the management team we
will build Virgin Cruises into a new favorite for leisure travelers."

Evan Lovell, Partner at Virgin Management Limited said, "Virgin Cruises complements our extensive
travel and leisure experience, which includes our award winning global airlines, passenger train service,

Page149of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.and new hotel brand which will open its first property in Chicago next month. We are thrilled that Bain
Capital is joining us on this journey."
Allen & Company LLC is advising Virgin Group on the transaction.

About Virgin Group 

Virgin is a leading international investment group and one of the world's most recognized and respected
brands. Conceived in 1970 by Sir Richard Branson, the Virgin Group has gone on to grow successful
businesses in sectors including mobile telephony, travel and transportation, financial services, leisure and
entertainment, health and wellness, and space tourism.

About Bain Capital 

Bain Capital, LLC ( ( http://www.baincapital.com ) is one of the world's foremost privately-held alternative
investment firms, with approximately $80 billion of assets under management in several pools of capital
including private equity, venture capital, public equity, credit products and absolute return. Bain Capital's
more than 400 professionals are collectively the single largest investor in all of its funds and are dedicated
to investing in and building its portfolio companies. Founded in 1984, Bain Capital has made private
equity, growth, and venture capital investments in more than 450 companies around the world, and has
deep experience in the consumer and retail space with investments in companies including Apple Leisure
Group, Canada Goose, The Weather Company, TOMS and many others. Bain Capital has offices in
Boston, New York, Chicago, Palo Alto, London, Munich, Dublin, Tokyo, Shanghai, Hong Kong, Mumbai
and Sydney.

About Virgin Cruises 

Virgin Cruises is a new cruise line based in the Miami/Fort Lauderdale area that is planning to offer its
guests an outstanding experience matched with the famed Virgin service. The Virgin Cruises team can be
reached at ahoy@virgincruises.com

Media Contacts:

For Virgin Group

Nick Fox, Director of External Relations
T: +44(0)207-229-4738 / M: +44(0)7711-727-618

E: nick.fox@virgin.com

For Bain Capital

Alex Stanton, Stanton Public Relations & Marketing

T: +1-212-780-0701

E: astanton@stantonprm.com

CO

IN

NS

dsnyw : The Walt Disney Company | virgin : Virgin Group Ltd | allenc : Allen & Company Inc | bainca :
Bain Capital, LLC | applv : Apple Leisure Group
imarpas : Marine Passenger Transport | i74 : Marine Transport | iship : Water Transport/Shipping | itsp :
Transportation/Logistics | i765 : Tour Operators | i814 : Banking | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial
Vehicles | i8150203 : Private Equity | i831 : Financial Investments | i83101 : Investment Banking | i8396 :
Diversified Holding Companies | i971 : Television/Film Production | i97101 : Cinema Film Production |
ialtinv : Alternative Investments | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal :
Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities | ilea : Leisure/Arts/Hospitality | imed : Media/Entertainment
| itourm : Tourism | iventure : Venture Capital
c411 : Management Moves | cboard : Board of Directors | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | cslmc :
Senior Level Management | c41 : Management | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex :
C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
TRAVEL

RE
IPD
PUB The Press Association Limited
AN

Document PRESSA0020141204eac4004v3

Page150of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Page151of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.