Touching the face of the dragon

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Touching the face of the dragon

Will Hodgman
883 words
17 November 2014
Hobart Mercury
MRCURY
Hobart
14
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved

China has come knocking at Tasmania’s door, writes Premier Will Hodgman THE week ahead
promises to be an exciting and historic time for our state. The visit tomorrow by Chinese President Xi
Jinping will be a significant milestone in Tasmania’s history.

It presents a great opportunity for our state, and for our future prosperity. It will provide an unparalleled
opportunity to raise Tasmania’s profile to the most populous country in the world. Literally tens of
millions of people in China will receive images of their President visiting our state — marketing no
amount of money can buy.

To give some perspective on this, consider that recently when I met China’s Foreign Minister Wang Yi
during his visit to the state, an image of us meeting on the Foreign Ministry’s website was viewed an
incredible 50 million times in just three days.

That’s why we are putting significant effort into marketing Tasmania to our key markets and capitalising
on this opportunity. I’ve got to say, the timing couldn’t be better with Lonely Planet just recently ranking
us in the top four must-see destinations in the world, and just last week Saffire being judged best luxury
resort in the world.

It will be important for all of us to show a welcoming face to our international visitors and to
demonstrate the friendliness and hospitality for which our state is famous.

Similarly, President Xi’s visit provides us with a massive opportunity to grow our export markets into
China, and to attract Chinese investment here.
Chinese business ties to Tasmania are already strong, with direct trade (including Hong Kong) of
$784 million or 28.5 per cent of our merchandised exports.
China is our largest single trading partner and increasingly a major source of much needed investment
into our island state.
Some examples of these investments in mining include Jiangsu Shagang Group’s stake in Grange
Resources’ Savage River Mine and China MinMetals ownership of the Rosebery Mine.
In energy, Shenhua Energy via its Guohua subsidiary has purchased a major stake in Hydro
Tasmania’s wind farms.

There is increasing interest in our secure and safe agricultural industries, an example being the recent
investment in the beef industry on King Island by the Nanshan Group.

To help capitalise on President Xi’s visit, the Government is hosting our first “TasInvest” conference.
Held over three days, TasInvest will showcase our state’s competitive advantages in three key sectors
— agribusiness, tourism and resources — as well as promoting opportunities in potential growth areas
such as international education, and Antarctic and Southern Ocean research. TasInvest will also

Page61of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.feature business-to-business matching sessions, and site tours in all regions of our state — South,
North, and North-West.
I am extremely pleased that all events are sold out, with more than 270 registered delegates to the
TasInvest conference, with more than 100 delegates from China, including eight ChineseFortune 500
companies plus senior interstate delegates from ASX companies, and financial institutions such as
Westpac, NAB, Torque Mining, Pitcher Partners, and Australian Super.

Events and field tours will be held right around our state, showcasing the fantastic opportunities to
invest in our competitive advantages such as mining, agriculture and tourism, and a massive 650
people will be attending the dinner — demonstrating, I believe, a real confidence in our state’s future.
In my view, building on our successful ties with China is important for the future prosperity of
Tasmania, for growing our economy and for creating jobs for Tasmanians. That’s why I accepted the
offer from the Prime Minister to visit China with him and all the other state Premiers just two weeks
after being sworn into office; it was an opportunity too good to miss.
On that trip, I was able to hand-deliver the message that Tasmania is open for business and I’m
pleased that trip is now paying dividends.

On that trip I was able to personally extend and reinforce the invitation to President Xi to visit our state
that then-premier Lara Giddings offered in 2013.
It was on that trip that I met representatives of the Chinese Development Bank, cementing our
commitment to negotiate a Memorandum of Understanding with them, which I am today signing in
Canberra. This MOU will provide unprecedented opportunities for Tasmanian businesses to access
Chinese investment.

And it was on this trip that I met Andrew “Twiggy” Forrest, who was travelling as part of the Prime
Minister’s business delegation. I’m delighted that he has accepted my invitation to visit Tasmania and
participate in our program of events over the next few days.

I hope in years to come we can look back at the events of and around November 18, 2014, with pride.
Pride in what we have been able to achieve and pride in that we have grasped the opportunities that
have come forward from closer ties with China.A key measure will be economic growth and greater job
numbers. While Government has an important role to play, it will be the efforts of all of us, including
most particularly Tasmanian businesses and the support of the broader community that will enable
these opportunities and lead to a more prosperous Tasmania.

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gpol : Domestic Politics | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations
china : China | tasman : Tasmania | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
austr : Australia | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document MRCURY0020141116eabh0000m

Page62of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.