Foresight ensures the future for family operation

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Foresight ensures the future for family operation

593 words
23 March 2014
Launceston Examiner
FEXANP
C10
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

BACK in 1969, Bill Taylor Snr purchased more than 200hectares of farmland on the banks of the
Wakefield River just outside the hamlet of Auburn in the Clare Valley of South Australia. With
fortified wines still very much in vogue; his decision to

plant a vineyard with mainly cabernet sauvignon was greeted with much bemusement by local
grape growers.

Three generations on, Taylor's foresight has been recognised by the inaugural release of a
premium wine: the individually numbered Taylors 2009 The Visionary Cabernet Sauvignon, which
comes in a special gift pack for $150. Think brambly intensity

and smoky, cedary oak.

Over the past 40 years, Taylors has grown from a small family wine producer to a global concern
that makes over a quarter of a million cases a year. With over 400 hectares under vine, the Taylors
are today the largest grape growers in the

region.
Taylors, known as Wakefield Estate in Europe to avoid confusion with port producers Taylors,
today export to over 50 countries, from China to Brazil, and are well known for ranges that stretch
from the budget Promised Land range to the high- end

St Andrews releases.

And while the family operation may now be a major one, Clinton Taylor and his family live on the
winery site and Mick Allen, who planted the first vines 43 years ago for Bill Taylor, still works for the
family.
On a recent visit to the Clare (disclosure: I have given marketing advice to the company), I was
amazed to find many of the employees have been employed by Taylors for decades - and yet this
is not a company that stands still - it was the first

Australian winery to switch to 100per cent screw-cap closures.

And while many winemakers are obsessed with making the best shiraz, cabernet sauvignon or
chardonnay, Taylors winemaker Adam Eggins marches to the beat of a different drum.

With one eye on the future (and global warming), Eggins is enthused about varieties ranging from
fiano to merlot - and the Taylors Estate Merlot is certainly a wine worth looking out for with ripe
dark berry flavours and silky softness on the

palate. There are some dark ripe fruit notes here, well-integrated oak and real approachability for a
wine that is so young and costs under $20.

Ripe opportunity

Page71of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.One of the smartest little vineyards in the state goes up for auction at the end of the month with the
'ese vineyard in the Coal River Valley on the market due to "retirement, age and ill health".
The property at Tea Tree is on two titles with 2.9 hectares planted with pinot noir, sauvignon blanc
and chardonnay - and is just 25 minutes from Hobart CBD. A small home on the site could be
converted to a cellar door, subject to council

approval.

The vineyards were established in 1994 by Elvio and Natalie Brianese at Tea Tree and will be
auctioned by Roberts Real Estate on March 28.

New releases

Watch out for a new look from the wines across the McWilliam's portfolio over the next few months.
The 130-year-old New South Wales-based company, for whom part-time Tasmanian Jim Chatto is
chief winemaker, aims to champion the high-altitude vineyards of that state, including the Hilltops
and Tumbarumba regions.

Beginning with this month's launch of the new Appellation range, McWilliam's will progressively
release five new tiers of NSW wines, ranging from $13 to $55.

IN

RE
PUB
AN

i0 : Agriculture | i426 : Wine | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | ialco : Alcoholic Beverages/Drinks |
ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods
austr : Australia | tasman : Tasmania | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FEXANP0020140322ea3n0002q

Page72of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.