Business Traveller Magazine: Emirates and Jetstar sign codeshare

HD Business Traveller Magazine: Emirates and Jetstar sign codeshare
WC 1,425 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

14 February 2014
News Bites - Private Companies
NBPRCO
English
Copyright 2014. News Bites Pty Ltd.

NEWS BITES - PRIVATE COMPANIES
[Company Release]

TD

Emirates and Jetstar Airways have today announced a codeshare agreement.

The deal will see the Gulf carrier"s code placed on a number of routes operated by Jetstar, in Australia
and New Zealand, and Jetstar Asia.

It will allow Emirates passengers to access 27 new routes and six new destinations including Bali in
Indonesia and Dunedin in New Zealand.

Emirates Skywards members will be able to earn miles for flights on Jetstar-operated routes with the
Emirates code, as well as being able to use their miles to buy reward flights on any Jetstar service.

Adnan Kazim, an Emirates senior vice president, said: "This new link between Emirates and Jetstar offers
our passengers a number of benefits including new routes to destinations that are not part of the Emirates
network today.

"The link between Emirates and Jetstar is also fantastic news for our Emirates Skywards members, giving
them more options to use their miles to explore new countries and cultures."

From 6 April, all Emirates passengers on Jetstar flights will receive boarding passes on check-in at their
first international departure point for connecting international services.

The codeshare includes seven domestic routes in Australia, four in New Zealand, six between Australia
and New Zealand, and ten international routes out of Singapore to Indonesia, Cambodia, Vietnam,
Malaysia, Thailand and Hong Kong.
The codeshare itineraries go on sale today for travel from April 6. Emirates frequent flyers will be able to
redeem flights with points from March 1.
Lisa Brock, Jetstar"s group chief commercial officer, said: "Working with Emirates we have created a
product and a network offering that will provide Emirates passengers with new holiday options throughout
south-east Asia including Bali, Siem Reap and Phnom Penh and new destinations across Australia and
New Zealand.

"Emirates customers travelling on Jetstar will enjoy a range of full service fare features such as food and
beverage options and the same luggage allowance they would have on Emirates."

Jetstar is a part of Qantas, the Australian airline that signed a five-year partnership with Emirates last year
(see news, March 2013). Emirates already codeshares 50 routes with Qantas.

Click here for the full original announcement
COMPANY BACKGROUND

ACTIVITIES

Business Traveller is the leading magazine for the frequent business traveller, with ten editions worldwide
including the UK, US, Asia-Pacific, Middle East, China, Germany, Denmark, Hungary, Africa and Poland,
plus websites in the UK (businesstraveller.com), Asia (businesstraveller.asia), Middle East

Page263of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.(businesstravellerme.com), US (businesstravelerusa.com), Poland (businesstraveller.pl) and France
(businesstravel.fr).

BUSINESS NEWS ROUND UP

13 February 2014: Business Traveller Magazine: Join IHG Rewards and earn air miles
[Company Release] Members of British Airways, Lufthansa, Virgin Atlantic and Iberia"s frequent flyer
loyalty programmes can earn up to 9,000 award miles on hotel stays by joining IHG Rewards Club. The
promotion applies to stays at IHG properties before April 30. Stay one night and earn 500 award miles;
stay another three nights and earn 1,000 miles; stay at any three IHG brands and earn 2,000 miles; stay at
any two Holiday Inn brands and earn 1,000 miles, book two stays on web/mobile sites and earn 500 miles;
stay any three Saturdays and earn 2,000 miles; and complete any four of these offers to receive a bonus
2,000 miles. This offer is available for new members of British Airways" Executive Club, Lufthansa"s Miles
& More, Virgin Atlantic"s Flying Club and Iberia Plus programmes. Current members will receive a number
of offers earning up to 22,000 award miles. Source: Company Website

Click here for the full original announcement

12 February 2014: Business Traveller Magazine: Starwood to open first Aloft in Al Ain
[Company Release] Starwood will open its first Aloft hotel in Al Ain in 2016. The 172-room Aloft Al Ain will
be the brand"s first property in the city and second in Abu Dhabi, following the 2009 opening of Aloft Abu
Dhabi (see news, August 2009). The new-build will be part of a 500,000 sqm development that surrounds
the city"s 25,000-seat Hazza Bin Zayed Stadium and will also include office space, residential units,
family entertainment, retail shops and restaurants. Its 172 rooms, including two presidential suites, will all
feature Aloft"s signature loft-like ceilings, oversized windows, and large walk-in showers with
complimentary Bliss Spa products. The hotel will also include a bar, fitness centre, a 24-hour food kiosk
and two meeting spaces. Starwood senior vice president Bart Carnahan said: "As the second largest city
in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi with increasing investment and growing business and leisure opportunities, Al
Ain is an attractive destination for development." Starwood currently operates nearly 50 hotels in the
Middle East, with plans to open an additional 30 hotels in the next few years.
starwoodhotels.com/alofthotels Source: Company Website

Click here for the full original announcement

12 February 2014: Business Traveller Magazine: VIDEO: ANZ hires supermodels for safety film
[Company Release] Most airlines stuggle to get passengers to pay attention to their pre-flight safety
demonstrations. But Air New Zealand is hoping to overcome this after hiring five supermodels to present a
safety video while wearing swimwear on a beach in the Cook Islands. ANZ supermodel safety video
Sports Illustrated regulars Chrissy Teigen, Ariel Meredith, Hannah Davis and Jessica Gomes front the
carrier"s new video and are joined by veteran supermodel Christie Brinkley, who makes a cameo
appearance. Jodi Williams, ANZ"s global head of brand development, said: "The behind the scenes video
has generated much conversation around the world about our brand and the Cook Islands as a
destination. "It"s exciting for us to release the full video and we hope it will encourage many viewers to
consider a trip to the Cook Islands." ANZ supermodel safety video ANZ supermodel safety video The
Cook Islands is a key Pacific Island destination for ANZ.

Click here for the full original announcement

12 February 2014: Business Traveller Magazine: Turkish Airlines expands Ataturk departures lounge
[Company Release] Turkish Airlines has expanded and redesigned its departures lounge at Istanbul"s
Ataturk Airport. The carrier has added another 2,400 sqm to the 3,500 sqm Turkish Airlines Lounge
Istanbul, increasing the size of the facility by 40 per cent and its capacity by 1,000 guests. Turkish Airlines
Lounge Istanbul Turkish Airlines Lounge Istanbul The expanded lounge now has a second floor that
connects to the original space via a spiral staircase. In the original lounge area, which includes a
children"s playground, library, billiards area, prayer room and teleconference section, there is now an
enlarged rest and shower space and additional massage beds. Facilities also include free wifi, meals and
snacks, a tea garden reminscent of those found in Istanbul, a miniature model of Istanbul complete with
Scalextric race track, games consoles and a golf simulator. Turkish Airlines Lounge Istanbul Turkish
Airlines Lounge Istanbul Turkish Airlines Lounge Istanbul Miles and Smiles Elite, Elite Plus, Star Alliance
Gold Card Members and Business Class passengers can access the lounges.

Click here for the full original announcement

12 February 2014: Business Traveller Magazine: Virgin Atlantic to trial Google Glass at Heathrow

Page264of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.[Company Release] Virgin concierges in the Upper Class wing will for the next six weeks be testing how
wearable technology could improve passenger experience and efficiency. The airline said that from the
moment business class travellers arrive at London Heathrow, Glass-wearing staff will begin the check-in
process, while at the same time using the device to provide updates on flight information, check weather
forecast in their onward destination, and translate simple phrases if they speak a foreign language. The
benefit of being able to wear the computer could allow staff to walk around while still able to access the
internet to find out the answers to customer questions. They could also potentially take photos, record
video, send emails and make phone calls. Dave Bulman, director of IT at Virgin Atlantic, said: "By being
the first in the industry to test how Google Glass and other wearable technology can improve customer
experience, we are upholding Virgin Atlantic"s long tradition of shaking things up and putting innovation at
the heart of the flying experience." Virgin said that in the future, the gadget could inform staff of people"s
dietary requirements and refreshment preferences, although it does need wifi connectivity to function.

Click here for the full original announcement

CO jetass : Jetstar Asia Airways Pte Ltd | oxair : Jetstar Airways Pty Ltd | emtal : Emirates Airline | ostihl :

IN

NS

RE

Orangestar Investment Holdings Ltd | qntas : Qantas Airways Ltd
i75 : Airlines | i7501 : Scheduled Passenger Airlines | iairtr : Air Transport | ilowair : Low Cost Airlines | itsp
: Transportation/Shipping
c3141 : Sales Promotions | c1521 : Analyst Comments/Recommendations | c1522 : Share Price
Movement/Disruptions | npress : Press Releases | c15 : Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | c31 :
Marketing | c314 : Pricing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
kampa : Cambodia | austr : Australia | uae : United Arab Emirates | abudh : Abu Dhabi | cookis : Cook
Islands | uk : United Kingdom | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | gulfstz : Persian Gulf Region |
indochz : Indo-China | meastz : Middle East | pacisz : Pacific Islands | seasiaz : Southeast Asia | wasiaz :
Western Asia | weurz : Western Europe

IPD ACTIVITIES; BUSINESS NEWS ROUND UP
PUB News Bites Pty Ltd (Europe)
AN Document NBPRCO0020140214ea2e00004

Page265of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.