Roundup: China Merchants wins historic bid for Newcastle port

HD
BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Roundup: China Merchants wins historic bid for Newcastle port

ZhangXiaoJun
771 words
30 April 2014
18:15
Xinhua News Agency
XNEWS
English
Copyright 2014. Xinhua News Agency. All rights reserved.

SYDNEY, April 30 (Xinhua) -- China Merchants Group (CMG) Wednesday secured a critical foothold in
Australia's key export port-city of Newcastle with State Premier Mike Baird and Treasurer Andrew
Constance announcing the winning China Merchants Group bid - partnered with Hastings Fund
Management - will secure the lease for 98 years.

While investment bank Morgan Stanley tackled an intense bidding process on behalf of the New South
Wales (NSW) state government - five separate groups were competing for the port including industry
leaders ATEC, Cheung Kong Infrastructure and Macquarie Infrastructure.

The NSW government has agreed to lease the port for 98 years to Port of Newcastle Investments, a
consortium which comprises Hastings Funds Management and CMG.
It is a landmark acquisition with the asset in its entirely - the world's largest coal export port, servicing
more than 2,200 vessels carrying about 150 million tonnes of cargo in the past year - at the crest of an
infrastructure wave that will reshape the city of Newcastle as well.

The state government came to terms over 98 years with the consortium comprising Hastings Funds
Management and China Merchants, acting as Port of Newcastle Investments.
According to Treasurer Constance, the long-term lease will deliver gross proceeds of 1.75 billion
Australian dollars.
Premier Baird confirmed 340 million dollars from the proceeds will be used for the revitalization of the
Newcastle CBD, in addition to the 120 million dollars the government has already allocated to the
project, which includes a new light rail service.

Baird described the deal as "momentous" and one that "exceeds all expectations."

He said the scale of this transaction means the people of Newcastle and the Hunter Region of NSW
should enjoy a cascade of further initiatives in the region.

"Transactions such as this bring enduring benefits to communities and the economy, and build on the
NSW government's successful track record in recycling mature state-owned assets to deliver major
infrastructure projects that will unlock opportunities for growth, jobs and economic development," the
premier told journalists in Newcastle.

The state government reached an agreement with Port of Newcastle Investments for the lease following
a competitive five- month bidding process.

Treasurer Constance said the Port of Newcastle lease is the latest in a series of successful asset
recycling projects, including the sale of Eraring Energy and Delta Electricity's western power stations,
the long-term lease of Port Botany and Port Kembla, and the refinancing of the Sydney Desalination
Plant.

Page32of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."The strong level of interest from a highly-qualified and experienced bidding field - resulting in five final
bids - is a powerful endorsement of Newcastle and the Hunter and the NSW government's ability to run
a robust and transparent process."

Constance said the two members of Port of Newcastle Investments are well-known, long-term global
infrastructure investors, with an attractive track record in asset ownership, operations and
developments. Having built terminals in China's major seaports, the CMG has been looking overseas
for growth.

The CMG has a 50 percent share in a deepwater container port in Togo and is building a new 500
million U.S. dollars terminal in Colombo, a trans-shipment hub in the Indian Ocean.

"They have the infrastructure management experience and the resources needed to secure the ongoing
development and professional management of the port," Constance said.
The CMG has consistently reported growing gross assets, five years ago at 201.2 billion yuan (29.5
billion U.S. dollars) and 1, 732 billion yuan (253.4 billion U.S. dollars) under management.

With a 140-year history as an owner and operator of ports and transport businesses, the CMG has been
operating in the trading and retail sector in Australia for more than 20 years. In 2010, it acquired leading
Australian-based container pallet logistics provider Loscam.
The looking-out policy has secured the company a massive global footprint with a proven track record
across Asia and Africa and a renewed focus on the potential of the Asia-Pacific.
Hastings Funds Management and China Merchants Group are equal partners in Port of Newcastle
Investments. Hastings has been involved in many successful government asset transactions, including
the Sydney Desalination Plant and Cairns and Mackay Airports.

"I congratulate Port of Newcastle Investments on their successful bid and the NSW government looks
forward to long and productive working relationship."

The NSW government will continue to retain regulatory oversight of the Port of Newcastle as well as
responsibility for a range of maritime safety and security functions, including emergency response,
harbor master, port safety operating license and pilotage functions.

RF
CO

IN

RE

IPD
PUB
AN

01
chkinf : Cheung Kong Infrastructure Holdings Ltd | hasfml : Hastings Funds Management Limited |
hutwam : Hutchison Whampoa Limited | wstpac : Westpac Banking Corporation Limited
i5020017 : Harbor Construction | i831 : Financial Investments | i502 : Heavy Construction | iconst :
Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities |
i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150211 : Unit Trusts/Mutual Funds
austr : Australia | china : China | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | nswals : New South Wales
Australia
Xinhua News Agency
Document XNEWS00020140430ea4u0035x

Page33of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.