Iron ore price slide colours port sale

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Iron ore price slide colours port sale

Catie Low
468 words
24 October 2014
Business News
WABN
English
© Copyright 2014 Business News Pty Ltd.

The weak iron ore price has cast a shadow over the state government's asset sales agenda and
raised concerns the commodity's slump will affect the sale price for the Kwinana Bulk Terminal and
the Utah Point port.

Recent port sales on the east coast have highlighted offshore demand for Australian infrastructure.

Hastings Funds Management and Chinese corporation China Merchants paid $1.75 billion for the
98-year lease on the Port of Newcastle in April.

The price represented a multiple of 27 times earnings and was significantly above market
expectations.

It's possible demand could drive a similar result in Western Australia, but analysts warn it is
impossible to value the ports without taking the iron ore price into consideration.

This is despite the commodity's falling value having little, if any, effect on overall port activity.

One analyst, who did not wish to be identified, said any buyer would look at the underlying clients of
the ports and the potential impact of a soft iron ore price on their future output.
"I don't think there's any way to escape the influence of the iron ore price if those producers are
impacted," he said.
The release of the tender for lead financial adviser for the port assets has triggered a flurry of activity
among the city's investment banks.

Local boutique firms are busy negotiating partnerships or consortium arrangements with global banks
to ensure they have links to the major infrastructure investors, many of which are offshore.

However the tender has a strong local content flavour, which some industry insiders believe will
favour a bid featuring a Perth investment house.

Azure Capital and Argonaut are understood to be considering the tender, as is Euroz.

Head of corporate finance Doug Young said Euroz had engaged in general discussions with potential
partners.

"We obviously think it's an important step for the state government and we are still deciding whether
we will formally respond to the request for tender," Mr Young told Business News.

Opinion appears to be divided over the importance of local content.

One experienced dealmaker said it would make sense to set up a consortium featuring a local
investment bank, but the capacity to reel in the global infrastructure investors was deemed more
important by another industry insider.
"Working with a global bank and a global accounting firm is the only way to bring in those links," he
said.

Page86of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The major banks, including UBS and Goldman Sachs, are all expected to take a close look at the
tender, however, a number won't proceed because they either have a conflict, such as involvement in
the sale of another port or, as has been suggested about Macquarie, they have an interest in buying
the assets.

hasfml : Hastings Funds Management Limited | wstpac : Westpac Banking Corporation Limited
i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | i81502 :
Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150211 : Unit Trusts/Mutual Funds | ifinal : Financial Services |
iinv : Investing/Securities
c182 : Asset Transactions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Business News Pty Ltd
Document WABN000020141024eaao0005m

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page87of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.