Cheese wars: Bega eyed as Parmalat nabs Harvey Fresh

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Market Wrap - Street Talk
Cheese wars: Bega eyed as Parmalat nabs Harvey Fresh

Edited by Sarah Thompson, Anthony Macdonald and Gretchen Friemann
465 words
9 January 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
12
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

While all eyes are on Canadian Saputo and local co-operative Murray Goulburn's $500 million-plus
fight for Warrnambool Cheese & Butter, New Zealand dairy giant Fonterra is watching NSW-based
Bega Cheese.
Fonterra, the world's biggest dairy exporter, snagged 6 per cent of Bega in a share raid in October
and has since crept up to 9 per cent of the register.

Fonterra said it moved to protect a commercial contract and wanted to be part of the consolidation in
the Australian dairy industry. There was no indication of an intended takeover.

But Street Talk can confirm that Fonterra has been quite candid about its desire to own Bega in
conversations with some buy-side investors.

In 2001, Fonterra and Bega entered a 25-year franchise licensing agreement that allows Fonterra to
use the Bega brand in Australia. In 2012, Bega extended a separate 10-year cheese supply
agreement with Fonterra, under which Fonterra supplies the bulk cheese and Bega returns it
retail-ready. Fonterra is the largest customer through Bega's Ridge Street cut-and-wrap facility in
southern NSW.
Fonterra's Australian business has struggled with the intense competition in the market and the
power of the Coles-Woolworths duopoly.
Acquiring Bega would add 650 million litres to Fonterra Australia's 1.6 billion-litre milk pool and
prevent another competitor from buying Bega and entering the market.

Formerly a farmer co-operative, Bega retained a shareholder cap when it listed in 2011 to allow the
dairy group time to grow and ward off predators.

No party can own more than 10 per cent of Bega without approval. But the shareholder cap is due to
fall away in the next few years. When Warrnambool Cheese shed its shareholder cap it didn't take
long for the takeover bids to start flying.

Meanwhile Bega, which pulled out of the Warrnambool takeover race last month, is mulling its options
regarding its 18.8 per cent Warrnambool stake.

Saputo's $9-a-share offer is set to close on Friday but it is widely expected to extend its offer. Even if
Saputo surprises everyone and closes its bid, Bega may have another buyer lined up.
Chinese interests have been linked with the stake and a Chinese buyer is about to acquire United
Dairy Power – the nation's largest privately owned dairy processor.

Page147of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Over in Western Australia, family-owned dairy and juice group Harvey Fresh is about to fall into
Parmalat's hands. Harvey accounts for one-third of WA's fresh milk market and is the state's biggest
dairy exporter. The asset is expected to fetch more than $100 million.

CO

IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

becoop : Bega Cheese Ltd | mryglb : Murray Goulburn Co-operative Company Limited | cenord :
Parmalat SpA | foncop : Fonterra Co-operative Group Limited | slb : Groupe Lactalis
i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i413 : Dairy Products | icnp :
Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140108ea1900017

Page148of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.