Telcos bet each way

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Supplement - Special Report
Telcos bet each way

David Ramli
437 words
2 October 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
16
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Wealthy Asian investors and cashed up technology firms are ramping up efforts to buy Australian
technology and telecommunications companies to send expertise to their home markets, experts say.

While local giants such as Telstra and ANZ Bank have captured the imagination of shareholders by
investing in Asia, Deloitte Asia Pacific telecommunications and technology partner Damien Tampling
says the investments have been a two-way street.

SingTel-Optus, NTT Docomo, Canon and Telekom Indonesia have spent tens of millions of dollars to
quietly buy out Australian operations as part of a push to grow their regional businesses.
In a strange twist of fate, Australian telecommunications and technology companies doing business
in Asia will soon find themselves facing products and services they helped developed here, Mr
Tampling said.

And while Telstra has a goal of getting a third of profits and revenues from Asian operations from
2020 onwards, its chief rival Optus has also been buying advertising and technology start-ups that will
offer services in Australia.
"You've got high net-worth individuals like the [Alibaba Group founder] Jack Mas of the world as well
as large conglomerates in the region who are relatively cashed up," he said. "They're increasingly
interested in diversifying outside of their countries and using their balance sheet to make investments
in other parts of the world."

Mr Tampling said Asian investments in tech and telco firms were often overshadowed by high-profile
takeovers of agriculture or mining operations. "In tech and telco it's about getting access to intellectual
property or capabilities that can be transferred back into Asia," he said. "A good example is
IT services companies with implementation skills that can be deployed to improve their capabilities in
Asia.

"They're also looking to second Australian general managers or IT architects up into the region to
improve the overall quality of other franchises."
Even Telstra's partners are looking to milk its expertise and products to help expand their operations
throughout the region, with the internet making it cheaper to launch services in new countries.

Telekom Indonesia signed a deal in August to resell Telstra's innovative cloud computing products in
its home market.

But its director of innovation and strategic portfolio Indra Utoyo told The Australian Financial Review
he wanted to offer their products to other countries in the region.
"We will follow where the people of Indonesia go, including Hong Kong, Malaysia, Taiwan and also
the Middle East," he said at the time.

Page330of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."We're also present in Timor Leste and also Myanmar . . . where we're following the money."

nttmcn : NTT DoCoMo Inc | delo : Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited | ntt : Nippon Telegraph and
Telephone Corporation
i7902 : Telecommunications | i79022 : Wireless Telecommunications Services | i7902202 : Cellular
Telecommunications | i836 : Accounting | iacc : Accounting/Consulting | ibcs : Business/Consumer
Services
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141001eaa200034

CO

IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

Page331of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.