Singapore turns focus on us

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Commercial realestate
Singapore turns focus on us

Carolyn Cummins Commercial Property Editor
525 words
25 October 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
38
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Singaporean-based Aquaint Capital Holdings is undertaking due diligence on a mixed-use
development project in Fremantle, Western Australia, but has its sights firmly fixed on the Sydney and
Melbourne suburban office and retail markets, according to chief operating officer Daniel Tan.
Speaking in Sydney during the week, Mr Tan, said the opportunities for the group in Australia were
positive and in time a float of a new fund, upwards of $100 million, could occur, depending on seed
assets.

"We like the eastern seaboard initially, but the mixed-use site at Fremantle also meets our investment
criteria," Mr Tan said.

"We aim for income-producing, high-yield assets, mainly in retail and office."
The company will use cash raised from the recent sale of a residential block in the London suburb
of Kensington, with the 12-unit apartment block sold for £2.55 million ($4.62 million).

The expansion of Aquaint comes as more than $11 billion of office, retail and industrial assets are
forecast to be offered for sale, as wholesale funds come to the end of existence, but buyers could be
hard to find if the quality of the properties is not up to scratch, according to agents.

The assets will come from the closed-end wholesale funds that were created before the global
financial crisis and are now up for renewal or closure. If the latter is the case, there is a concern that
because they may not be of investment-grade quality, investors waiting for a promised return may not
see the cash for a while.

Based on the typical fund life of eight years, CBRE believes that about 84 funds are set to terminate
between 2013 and 2016, but the peak is tipped in 2015 and 2016, when about 50 funds with a gross
asset value of about $US40 billion will expire.

These funds were focused in the opportunistic risk segment and showed a strong preference for
assets in major markets in the Asia-Pacific region, in particular assets in Australia, Japan and China,
whose value was greatly affected by the financial crisis.

The shortfall between the potential liquidity of funds ending their lifespan and the market's ability to
absorb these assets would be about $US10 billion in the coming two years, said Nick Crockett,
executive director, CBRE Capital Advisors, Asia Pacific.

"The combined effects of a wave of fund dispositions and a market with a limited capacity to absorb
them have critical implications to fund managers over how they should position their funds and the
options they should consider beyond termination. These assets could therefore face difficulties in
finding buyers or being disposed of at desirable terms," he said.

Fund managers wanted to maximise returns, yet were trying to balance an optimal approach between
market cycle and scrutiny from investors, said John Wills, senior director, CBRE Capital Advisors,

Page35of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Asia Pacific. "Options for exit will need to be carefully planned and executed to retain ongoing
investor support. Dependent on assets and investors, managers in Australia are likely to employ a
variety of strategies."

CO
IN
RE

PUB
AN

aqcaph : Aquaint Capital Holdings Ltd
i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ireest : Real Estate
austr : Australia | singp : Singapore | sydney : Sydney | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia
Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South Wales | seasiaz : Southeast
Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020141024eaap00065

Page36of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.