M &A Trends Australia Report 2014: Fishing for growth

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

M&A Trends Australia Report 2014: Fishing for growth

By Cherie Marriott
1,216 words
1 September 2014
Finance Asia
MEDFIN
14
English
Copyright 2014. Haymarket Media Limited. All rights reserved.

Australian CEOs are on the lookout for deals, while juggling their fear of overpaying with a fear of not
deploying money.

After years of cost-cutting Australian companies are finally putting their strong balance sheets to work,
leading to a flurry of mergers and acquisitions.

The pickup in deals is being driven by a confluence of cheap access to finance, strong interest from
overseas buyers, new funds raised by private equity firms and a need for company executives to find
new sources of growth.

A Deloitte survey of 50 Australian chief financial officers conducted in late June found 60% planned to
pursue potential mergers and acquisitions over the next 12 months, compared to 54% in the prior
survey.

'With market conditions strong, and the capital markets open to both investment grade and
sub-investment grade investors, M&A volumes (in Australia) are already approaching full-year 2013
levels,' said Kelvin Barry, joint head of advisory at UBS in Melbourne.
According to Dealogic, 856 M&A deals worth dollars 70 billion were completed in the first seven months
of 2014, making it the strongest first half in three years. Five transactions were worth more than dollars
3 billion compared with only one in the same period last year. The busiest sectors were energy and
power, real estate, infrastructure and healthcare.
Jake Haines, managing director at private equity firmPacific Equity Partners, points to a marked
change in buyer appetite and vendor willingness. 'There was a period of time where there was no real
conviction from boards and (chief executive officers),' said Haines. 'Now they are more prepared to
commit to a strategic direction. Business confidence has picked up and vendors see an avenue to
liquidity at attractive valuations.'

It is a sellers' market and the presence of offshore buyers is helping to bid up prices. In May, a
consortium of Hastings Funds Management and China Merchants Group beat four other parties to pay
a multiple of 27x earnings for Port of Newcastle, while in January this year, a three-way takeover battle
for Warrnambool Cheese and Butter saw Canadian company Saputo increase its initial offer by 35%
before finally securing the asset.

Valuations in check
Despite these heavily contested deals, Simon Haddy, a partner at law firm Herbert Smith Freehills,
believes prices are not overblown. 'Buyers are always balancing their fear of overpaying for assets with
their fear of not deploying money,' said Haddy. 'Yes, there are some healthy prices being paid for a
number of assets where there is strong competitive tension, but in general prices aren't over the top.'
Haines at PEP also says M&A valuations are in check now that the market for initial public offerings has
shed some of its froth. 'At the back end of last year pricing was inflated as the IPO market provided an
elevated shadow market,' he said, pointing to travel insurance company Cover-More which listed in
December last year at a price of 23.1 times forecast 2014 profits and has since traded flat. Shares in

Page76of186©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.electronic retailer Dick Smith have also underperformed after its December IPO which valued the
company at Adollars 520 million, a more than 400% increase on a year earlier.

PEP is actively putting capital to work and belongs to a small club of mid-sized, home-grown private
equity firms that includes Champ, Archer Capital and Quadrant. This group of four plays in the space
below international funds like TPG and Kohlberg Kravis Roberts (KKR), which also have money to
deploy in Australia. In June, TPG purchased the property arm of contractor UGL for Adollars 1.2 billion
(dollars 1.12 billion), while KKR is still hoping to pick up Treasury Wine Estates, increasing its offer for
the beleaguered winemaker to Adollars 3 billion in early August.

'These bigger firms may do one deal a year and focus on the larger transactions, whereas the
mid-market players have a broader target,' said Haines, estimating that Australia's four principle
domestic players have around Adollars 5 billion in equity capital to be spent. 'We are as busy as we
have ever been. In the past 12 months we have returned Adollars 2.7 billion to investors and I expect
this pace of activity to continue.'

Myriad funding

A key driver of volumes this year has been access to open and liquid financing markets, both at home
and overseas. Vendors are able to run parallel processes; choosing between selling to a strategic buyer,
a private equity firm or through the public markets. Buyers, meanwhile, can fund their acquisitions with
a combination of cheap debt and readily available equity capital.
Insurance Australia Group used a mix of funding when it purchased Wesfarmers' insurance
underwriting business in June, raising Adollars 200 million from existing investors via a share
purchase plan, Adollars 1.2 billion in an equity placement and Adollars 300 million in subordinated
debt. The fully underwritten placement priced at a 4% discount to its closing price at the time.

'The quantum of capital available and the cost of that capital means buyers have a greater propensity to
bid aggressively,' said Barry at UBS.

Some of the more aggressive bids have come from overseas. In two instances, foreign buyers have
trumped local competitors by making all-cash offers.
In May, Cheung Kong Infrastructure from Hong Kong made a last minute counter-bid to APA Group's
Adollars 2.2 billion offer for gas distributor Envestra. Independent directors immediately put their weight
behind CKI's all-cash offer, preferring it to APA's mainly scrip deal, and welcoming the 8% increase in
price.
Strong capital markets are also fuelling a burst of outbound M&A transactions - a segment that has
traditionally lagged inbound activity.
Thomson Reuters reported a 260% rise in outbound M&A in the first six months of this year, the highest
first-half period since 2010. Two of the biggest deals were Poker machine manufacturer Aristocrat
Leisure's dollars 1.3 billion acquisition of American rival Video Gaming Technologies, funded with a
Adollars 375 placement to local shareholders and dollars 1.3 billion in debt from the US public Term
Loan B markets. The placement closed on July 7 at a 2.4% discount to the stock's closing price the
previous day.

In another US target deal, Australian protective clothing and condom maker Ansell bought Illinois-based
glove maker BarrierSafe for dollars 615 million in January this year, raising Adollars 340 million in local
equity and dollars 200 million in debt from the US private placement market.

Buoyant markets are changing the way deals are structured. Buyers are using more cash to fund deals,
said Nick Sims, head of M&A at Goldman Sachs in Australia. 'This year cash has risen to represent 78%
of all acquisition considerations driven by the presence of international acquirers in nine of the 10
largest deals so far this year whose stock may be less attractive to Australian shareholders.'
260% - Rise in outbound M&A in H1 2014

--------------------

Did you find this article useful? Why not subscribe to the magazine? Please call 08451 55 73 55 for
more information or visit www.haysubs.com

NS

RE

c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

Page77of186©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB
AN

Haymarket Media Limited
Document MEDFIN0020140916ea910000l

Page78of186©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.