AMP builds up for investment year

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Commercial realestate
AMP builds up for investment year

Carolyn Cummins
481 words
26 November 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
24
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Property funds - Purchasing plans

AMP Capital has raised close to $2 billion across Australia and New Zealand through its unlisted
property funds, and will use the money to expand the portfolios in the coming year through
investments across all commercial sectors.

The deals have been in high-grade shopping centres, such as the redeveloped Macquarie Centre in
Sydney, and the $433 million acquisition of the National Australia Bank's futuristic headquarters in
Melbourne's Docklands.
Using its AMP Capital diversified, wholesale office and shopping centres funds, the group plans to be
a competitive player across most capital cities but with less focus on the mining states cities, Perth
and Brisbane.
While not specific, the group could consider such interests as Scentre retail assets.
AMP Capital's head of property funds management, Chris Judd, said despite any flatness in office
leasing and the vagaries of consumer spending, the past year was very busy, and set the funds up for
action in the coming year. "The business is delivering on a $5 billion shopping centre, office and
industrial property development pipeline, with strong support from domestic investors and global
pension fund clients," Mr Judd said.
He added that investors were heading into the unlisted property sector with great confidence to take
advantage of the higher yields and less volatility of the sharemarket.
The recent PCA/IPD Australia All Property Index, which focuses on the unlisted property funds
market, reported that the total return on commercial property averaged 9.9 per cent in the year to
September.
IPD Australia and New Zealand executive director Anthony De Francesco said commercial property
was in an early upswing phase.
"The strengthening capital return profile across all property sectors is underpinned by buoyant capital
markets conditions," he said. "The compulsory super fund cash flow has seen our funds' capital
raising all close oversubscribed. We are also receiving funds from mum and dad retail investors in our
wholesale Australian Property Fund and Chinese investors using the significant [investor] visa
investment," Mr Judd said.

"Launches such as Macquarie Centre in October and Ocean Keys in Perth this month continue the
successful delivery of AMP Capital Shopping Centres' $2.8 billion development pipeline."

Mr Judd said the office leasing sector was steady but capitalisation rates remained at some distance
from the "heady days" of 2008.

Page233of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."The funds have strong balance sheets and are, subsequently, well placed to deliver on AMP
Capital's $5 billion property development pipeline which includes Quay Quarter Sydney, 200 George
Street, and the newly developed Ocean Keys and Macquarie Centre," Mr Judd said.
"In New Zealand, a restructure of the AMP Capital Property Portfolio (APP) saw Canadian sovereign
wealth fund Public Sector Pension Investment Board (PSP Investments) secured in a NZ$1 billion
($A900 million) transaction.

AMP Capital retains management of the assets."

RE
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020141125eabq00043

Page234of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.