How to win over friends and influence others

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Opinion
How to win over friends and influence others

John Kehoe
870 words
28 January 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
39
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

John Kehoe
Though China appears central to Australia's economic destiny, Julie Bishop assures Americans
the US is our true friend. John Kehoe

The vexed foreign relations debate on whether Australia can walk and chew gum at the same time in
its security and economic relationships with the United States and China has reared its head in
Washington.

As US and Australian diplomats, trade and defence experts contested the issue at a forum in
Washington last week, Foreign Affairs Minister Julie Bishop left no one in the room guessing where
she stood, boldly declaring that the US was Australia's single most important economic partner.

"We're true friends who share common values, whose interests overwhelmingly align," Bishop said.

For the general observer, those sentiments would appear to overturn conventional wisdom that
Australia's economic destiny is determined by China, which is our largest export market and has for
the past decade had an insatiable appetite for minerals.

Bishop's doctrine was based on the US being Australia's largest source of foreign investment, which
combined with trade flows accounts for $1 trillion a year. It's a reasonable argument to make, with US
multinationals Chevron, ExxonMobil, GE and ConocoPhillips having significant investments Down
Under.
Regardless of whether the US or China is more important economically, what is beyond dispute is
that both are critical. The three economies are also heavily interdependent.
Bishop made the link in New York, noting that US resources companies have significant mining
investments in Australia, helping dig up the country's commodities and export them to China.

Still, there remains a legitimate question if the strengthening security alliance with the US jeopardises
Australia's economic relationship with China, particularly when there is heightened instability in the
trade corridors of the East and South China Seas. The dilemma Australia faces, as one former senior
diplomat told me, is how far do you accommodate China's political interests to benefit your economic
interests.
The Chinese have long held the strategic ambition to separate Australia from the US. The world's two
biggest economies are rivals and are vying for global dominance, even though America is almost
certain to hold that baton for decades to come.
China can be very aggressive, diplomatically, in trying to achieve its goals, to the point of bullying
foreign politicians and diplomats in negotiations.Australia has what China needs

Page144of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.But fortunately Australia has an ace up its sleeve that many other nations do not. Australia has what
China needs – an abundance of iron ore, coal and gas to fuel the Sino economic development.
These minerals are a strategic asset for Australia to leverage and offset the possibility of China
deciding to inflict economic damage on Australia because of its US ties.
"The economic relationship is as important to China as it is to Australia," former Australian defence
minister turned US Studies Centre professor Robert Hill said in an interview in Washington. "The free
flow of natural resources into China is critical for its development."

Though Brazil and increasingly Africa are seen as competitors to Australia in the world's resources
supply chain, government strategists believe it is unlikely China would stop buying our reliable
resources and pay higher prices elsewhere to send a political message.
If China does get unhappy, the more likely scenario is a ban on meeting Australian ministers for, say,
six months.

"I think we haven't been conscious enough in dealing with the strong position we have in dealing with
the Chinese," says a senior supporter of the US-Australia alliance.
The Abbott government is also acutely aware that Australia is far from alone in facing the China
conundrum and is not in a unique situation in balancing ties with China and the US.
In fact, most south-east Asian nations are in the same boat. China is the biggest export market for
Japan and Korea, both of whom are aligned with the US.

But if the US is truly Australia's single most important economic partner, a point Trade and Investment
Minister Andrew Robb also made recently, the Abbott government needs to back talk with action.

Only two months ago Treasurer Joe Hockey blocked US food processing giant Archer Daniels
Midland's $3.4 billion bid for GrainCorp. US government officials had worked for months with the
Australian government and ADM, which is very well connected in Washington, on trying to usher
through the deal.
Soon after, the government waved through State Grid Corporation of China's $7.5 billion purchase
of electricity and gas distribution assets across Australia's east coast. In another Chinese-friendly
decision, Hockey relaxed rules that would have forced Yanzhou, a Chinese state-owned enterprise,
to reduce its stake in Yancoal, one of Australia's largest coal miners.
Knocking back an acquisition by a US private-sector business while approving ownership by
Chinese state-owned enterprises sent a paradoxical message abroad.

Hence, Bishop's trumpeting of the US economic relationship is surely, in part, designed to appease
any US concerns from these events. Now the government is banking on China acting in its
self-interest and not dishing out any economic pain.

NS

RE

PUB
AN

nedc : Commentaries/Opinions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E
Executive News Filter
china : China | usa : United States | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140127ea1s00002

Page145of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.