From coal dust, a comeback bid

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY

LP

TD

ENTREPRENEURSHIP
From coal dust, a comeback bid

By Jeremy Grant and Jamie Smyth
1,251 words
18 June 2014
Financial Times
FTFT
London Ed1
12
English
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and
redistribute by email or post to the web.

Having made and lost a fortune controversially, Australia's Nathan Tinkler is doing deals again, say
Jeremy Grant and Ja mie Smyth

Nathan Tinkler's boardroom has a commanding view across Singapore - one that, on the face of it,
denotes success and corporate power. The offices are on the 51st floor of a tower owned by United
Overseas Bank, one of Singapore's biggest. A few minutes walk away are the local headquarters of
other big names in Asian finance.

But for this one-time star of the Australian rich lists, life of late has been less gilded than the workplace
trappings suggest. Mr Tinkler quit Australia for Singapore two years ago after a series of disastrous
deals and has since been trying to patch up his business finances, selling assets to repay creditors.

He recently found a buyer for his Patinack Farm horse stud - a vestige of a lifestyle that won him a
reputation as one of Australia's brashest tycoons. Dubbed the "boganaire" (a play on "bogan", a local
put-down for someone deemed uncultured), he had bought the Newcastle Knights rugby league and
Newcastle Jets football teams. Aircraft and mansions were accumulated too. Most of the trophies have
now been sold, although the Jets remain on the block.

"I will categorically say there are no racing stables or football teams in my future and that Nathan Tinkler
is just going to focus on what he knows and he thinks he's pretty good at," he says. "That was another
time in my life; call it young and foolish. I've had to put it down to experience."

Whatever critics may say of Mr Tink-ler - and there are many, including former business associates - he
does know the coal industry, where he started out as a pit electrician, or "pit leco" in the Australian
vernacular.
With an associate Mr Tinkler in 2006 turned an A$30m ($28m) investment in a Queensland coal licence
into a paper fortune through deals culminating in the sale of assets to Whitehaven Coal for A$2.7bn.
He then made an audacious A$5.3bn bid for Whitehaven in 2012, which collapsed as coal prices fell.
That sparked lawsuits in Australia to recover unpaid debts - put at a reported A$500m last year.
Declaring that the stud sale will solve the debt problems, Mr Tinkler is now attempting a comeback that
will test his entrepreneurial instincts and credibility after years of bruising encounters with business
associates, lenders and the media.
The first stage was the surprise acquisition last month of Wilkie Creek, an idled Australian thermal coal
mine, from Peabody of the US for $150m. It was part-financed by Jefferies, a New York investment
bank.
His thesis - with which many analysts agree - is that, with thermal coal prices having halved in three
years, now is the time to invest in extraction of the commodity, in anticipation of increasing demand in

Page52of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.China for lower-emission fuels such as cleaner burning thermal coal. Still only 38, Mr Tinkler also
believes the election of Narendra Modi in India will spur demand for coal, as the government ramps up
investment in road and rail.
"The long-term believers in the cycle, I think, are starting to move now. China's now got power stations
built and has built an amazing amount of infrastructure over the last 10 years," he says. The attraction of
Singapore as a base was not merely its low corporate and personal taxes and equatorial climate.
It is Asia's biggest commodities trading hub, where banks finance the bulk of flows of iron ore, coal and
copper that go to China.

"There's a huge investor base here," Mr Tinkler says, adding that financing for his past deals mostly
came from Singapore. He views Australia as insular, by contrast. "I've never raised a dollar, really, out of
Australia. I wore out a lot of shoe leather in places like Sydney and Melbourne trying to get things
funded."
Mr Tinkler is not the only mining and commodities personality to have picked Singapore. Gina Rinehart,
Australia's richest person, has a home there, as does Robert Friedland, the founder of Ivanhoe Mines,
and Jim Rogers, the US commodities guru.

Yet the notion that he can stage a comeback will be greeted with scepticism by some. Mr Tinkler had a
reputation in Australia for combining the dealmaking instincts of a streetwise entrepreneur with a
tendency to take highly leveraged risks, and was criticised for paying bills late.

Tim Curry is a director of Curry Power, a small business at one point owed $80,000 by Mr Tinkler for
work at Patinack. "The outstanding debt impacted us greatly. It took us three years to get the money. We
eventually got it in dribs and drabs," he says.

A close associate of Mr Tinkler's defends him: "His unwillingness to put a veneer over who he is is a
weakness. He's a classic price arbitrageur, a 'barrow boy', but he can still pick up the phone to anyone
big in the mining sector and they will talk."

Mr Tinkler admits: "I still don't think I've learnt to find my way around the financial world. It's something I
still probably struggle with today. Like I said, I'm probably short on detail; big on ideas and short on
detail."

On top of his financial difficulties, Mr Tinkler has also been drawn into a complex corruption investigation
in New South Wales. He faces allegations that his property development company, Buildev, donated
tens of thousands of dollars to the governing coalition in breach of a ban on political donations by
developers.

Appearing before the Independent Commission Against Corruption in Sydney last month he denied the
allegations as "ridiculous".

Asked about sections of the Australian media that have documented his rise and fall, Mr Tinkler says: "I
have a low tolerance for fools. They're fundamentally against mining, they're fundamentally against
resources and they're fundamentally against anything that's not socialist."

Meanwhile, he is pressing ahead with further deals, commuting to his office from a rented villa on an
island off the south coast of Singapore. He maintains a team of "a dozen or so guys" in Brisbane - paid,
he says, to help "evaluate opportunities".

Paddy Manning, an Australian journalist who has written an unauthorised biography of Mr Tinkler, says
his comeback attempt in "today's tough coal market" and despite a "blizzard of negative publicity" is
simply astonishing. But he does not write off his chances. "If he can manage it, it would be one of the
all-time feats."

An island haven

With its sandy beaches and moorings for superyachts, the Singaporean island of Sentosa is a haven for
the ultra-wealthy. Those who have a home there include Gina Rinehart, Australia's richest woman, who
has a fortune Forbes estimates at $17bn .

While she owns property on Sentosa, Nathan Tinkler rents a four-bedroom house after his fortune was
all but wiped out.
But what unites the two is their background in commodities and mining, and how this has propelled
them to Singapore.

Page53of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Banks in the Asian city-state provide much of the financing for Asian commodities trading and mining
deals. In March, Ms Rinehart signed a deal to raise $7.2bn to develop the Roy Hilliron ore mine in
Australia with 19 banks - at a ceremony in Singapore.

CO
IN
RE

IPD
IPC
PUB
AN

uob : United Overseas Bank Limited
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
austr : Australia | singp : Singapore | asiaz : Asia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
seasiaz : Southeast Asia
Company News
CN
The Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)
Document FTFT000020140618ea6i0000w

Page54of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.