Logos eyes off $70m industrial asset

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

CommercialProperty
Logos eyes off $70m industrial asset

BEN WILMOT, INDUSTRIAL
459 words
20 September 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
38
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Fund manager and developer Logos Property is targeting the purchase of a $70 million industrial
property in Prestons in Sydney’s southwest in a deal likely to set new benchmarks for the sector.
The move comes as the battle for the $350m Altis Real Estate Equity Partners 1 portfolio is tipped to
come to a head next week, with the private equity real estate firm selling the assets to decide then
whether to offload the properties in one line or to carve them up.

In the Sydney deal private projects group Vaughan Constructions had been quietly marketing the
two buildings in Prestons, which are leased to telecommunication company Salmat and poultry
groupInghams Enterprises, on 10 and 15-year leases.

The off-market play, being struck through CBRE’s Matt Haddon and Chris O’Brien, could show a
yield of less than 6.7 per cent, property executives said. The agents declined to comment.

Logos, which was set up in 2010, has built up a specialist development and asset management
platform focused on logistics real estate. It has operations in Australia and China, and is backed by
the likes of Singapore’s sovereign wealth fund, GIC Real Estate, and private equity
groupBlackstone.
Logos has also won the backing of Macquarie Group, which has struck up an alliance with the
group that will see the pair work together locally and internationally.

Logos has been active this year and in July represented fund manager CorVal — which has been
linked to the latest deal — and Heathley as they bought a $44.5m portfolio from Geminder Holdings.
Logos did not return calls and Vaughan could not be reached. The group is also thought to be
among the contenders for two logistics facilities, one in Erskine Park in Sydney and the other in
Brendale in Brisbane, being sold by Pitt Street Real Estate Partners.
The two new facilities, which will come with 15-year leases to listed Super Retail Group, span a total
of 90,000sq m and could be worth up to $150m.
The properties are being marketed for sale in one line by Michael Fenton, of JLL.

But it is the largest portfolio on the market, the Altis stable of 10 properties taken to market earlier
this year through Gavin Bishop and Roger Miller of Colliers International, that has drawn most
attention.

The assets have attracted more than 30 bids and a number of portfolio players have made a bid for
all the assets.The key property, 39 Herbert Street in Sydney’s St Leonards, could be worth $150m
as it has residential potential, while a North Sydney office tower may be sold separately to the
industrial properties in the portfolio.

CO

inent : Inghams Enterprises Pty Ltd | tpgpar : TPG, Inc.

Page217of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

i831 : Financial Investments | ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ifinal : Financial
Services | iinv : Investing/Securities | i0 : Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | i0100121 : Poultry Farming |
ilsfarm : Livestock Farming
c182 : Asset Transactions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry
News Filter
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New
South Wales
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140919ea9k0004c

Page218of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.