Why US raider wants to build $3b new home on the Grange

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Why US raider wants to build $3b new home on the Grange

Scott Rochfort Business reporter
525 words
22 May 2014
Daily Telegraph
DAITEL
Telegraph
23
English
Copyright 2014 News Ltd. All Rights Reserved

IN a nation swimming in a glut of top-end drops, one wine producer manages to go from strength to
strength — and keep its brand name in the headlines.

Whether it is the $3000 1959 bottle of Grange Hermitage that led to the downfall of NSW Premier Barry
O’Farrell or the $1800 bottle of Bin 170 Kalimna Shiraz that recently went on sale to mark its 170th
anniversary, Penfolds wine is rarely out of the public eye.

Now, akin to the eye-popping prices of its higher end bottles of wine, Penfolds is set to command a
multi-billion-dollar price tag after its owner Treasury Wines revealed on Tuesday it had a $3.04 billion
takeover approach from a US private equity group, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts.
Despite the woes facing the Australian wine industry, Penfolds seems to be Teflon-coated. Aside from
being immune to the lower prices hurting the bulk of the industry, sales of Penfolds’ luxury brands have
been booming — especially in China.

Penfolds, the maker of Grange Heritage, according to some estimates will make up to three-quarters of
Treasury Wine’s profits this year, despite being only one of its 80-odd brands. Treasury’s other key
brands include the Lindeman’s, Rosemount Estate, Wolf Blass, Yellowglen and Seppelt.
Despite Treasury being worth $2.6 billion in the sharemarket before this week’s takeover bid, one
analyst conservatively valued Penfolds on its own at $3 billion.
“In our view, $3 billion is a very low price for Penfolds,’’ said Merrill Lynchwine industry analyst David
Errington in a research note earlier this year.

Winemakers’ Federation chief executive Paul Evans said: “Premium brands attract international
attention because of their quality and their proposition, which is usually around unique blends or unique
regions.” Mr Evans said premium brands also played an important role in helping Australia’s overall
wine industry.

“It’s very important, in fact it’s critical, that those premium brands are doing well globally because they
tend to attract attention to the rest of the Australian category, across all price points.” In contrast to
Penfolds, the bulk of the local wine industry has in recent years contended with increased export
competition and a high dollar.
Domestically, where 77 per cent of wine sales are made through Woolworths and Coles, local
producers have also been battling shelf space with the retailers’ private labels (which make up to 18
per cent of sales) and imports. To make matters worse, per capita wine consumption in Australia has
been falling.

That is a price that might have had founding English doctor Christopher Rawson Penfold order one of
his own tonics. Dr Penfold, who believed in the medicinal benefits of wine, established the winery with
his wife Mary on his then-Mackgill Estate outside Adelaide in 1844.

Page208of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The bid for Treasury comes just days after Goodman Fielder, whose brands include White Wings,
Praise, MeadowLea and Helga’s Bread, recommended its shareholders accept a $1.37 billion
takeover bid from the Singaporean group Wilmar.î BUSINESS P36

CO
IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

kkr : KKR & Co. L.P.
i426 : Wine | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | ialco : Alcoholic Beverages/Drinks | ibevrge :
Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150203 :
Private Equity | ialtinv : Alternative Investments | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North
America
News Ltd.
Document DAITEL0020140521ea5m0005z

Page209of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.