Company Profile - International Container Terminal Services, Inc (ICTSI) - Q1 2015

HD
WC 1,579 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

26 November 2014
Business Monitor International Country Reports
BMICOR
English
© Copyright 2014 Business Monitor International.

Company Profile - International Container Terminal Services, Inc (ICTSI) - Q1 2015

SWOT Analysis
Strengths
* ICTSI has moved from being a national to an international port operator and
ranks among the world's top 10 (by number of containers handled).
* The
group's seven key terminals are all in strong emerging markets, where the
company is well placed to take advantage of increasing trade volumes.
Weaknesses
* Poor landside infrastructure and intermodal connections in the Philippines
and other countries in which ICTSI operates may hamper expansion plans.
Opportunities
* Intra-Asia trade should continue to grow on the back of a free-trade
agreement (FTA) signed between China and the ASEAN-5, which includes the
Philippines, in January 2010.
Threats
* Consumer demand in box shipping's traditional major markets of Europe and
the US, despite gradually picking up, remains sluggish.

TD

Company Overview
International Container Terminal Services, Inc . (ICTSI) is
a Philippines-based company engaged in the management, operation and
development of container terminals around the world. Through its subsidiaries
it provides different services in each port, based on the nature of the
business and industry of the country of operations and the general
requirements of its shipping line and cargo owners. It primarily handles
international containerised cargo, providing a number of ancillary services
such as storage, container stripping and stuffing, inspection, and services
for refrigerated containers or reefers, as well as roll-on roll-off and
anchorage services to non-containerised cargoes or general cargoes. ICTSI
conducts operations in four geographic segments: Asia-Pacific and the
Subcontinent; Africa; Americas; and Europe and the Middle East. The company's
flagship operation is the Manila International Cargo Terminal, which was the
first Philippine port to be privatised. Other Philippine ports in its
portfolio include Bauan International Port, Inc. (Batangas), Davao Integrated
Port and Stevedoring Services Corp. (Davao City), Hijo International Port
Services (Davao Del Norte), New Container Terminal 1 and New Container
Terminal 2 (both in Subic Bay), Mindanao International Container Terminal
Services, Inc. (Misamis Oriental) and South Cotabato Integrated Port Services,
Inc. (General Santos City) . Subsidiary ICTSI Ltd manages the group's foreign
operations, including the development of port concessions overseas.

Page170of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.BMI expects ICTSI, like many international terminal operators, to
Strategy
continue increasing its exposure to emerging markets. It already operates in
some of the world's most attractive emerging markets, including Brazil,
Ecuador and Poland. ICTSI announced its first foray into the Indian ports
sector through an agreement to develop a new container terminal in the state
of Tamil Nadu. ICTSI is a late entrant to the Indian market:
APM Terminals has two container terminals in India, PSA International has
five, and DP World has a further five in operation with another in development
at Kulpi. The operator has signed an agreement with L&T Shipbuilding (LTSB)
jointly to manage and operate the new Kattupalli Terminal, which is close to
the city of Chennai, in India. LTSB was responsible for the construction of
the terminal's first phase with a capacity of 1.2mn twenty-foot equivalent
units (TEUs). The terminal has two berths, 350m and 360 m long. It started
commercial operations in January 2013. A second phase of development will
expand the terminal's capacity to 1.8mn TEUs. Having established a presence in
India, as BMI predicted, ICTSI set its sights on another emerging area in
which it lacks exposure: Africa. As of November 2014 its operations there
included Lekki International Container Terminal Services LFTZ Enterprise
(LICTSLE) in Lagos, Nigeria, Madagascar International Container Terminal
Services Ltd. (MICTSL) in Toamasina, Madagascar and ICTSI DR Congo S.A.
(IDRCSA) in Matadi, Democratic Republic of the Congo. In May 2014 through its
subsidiary Victoria International Container Terminal Ltd. (VICTL) it entered
Australia's port sector, making ICTSI one of the few global port operators
boasting facilities on six continents. VICTL has won the 26-year concession to
develop and operate Melbourne's third international container terminal at
Webb Dock at the Port of Melbourne. The contract with the Port of Melbourne
Corporation for the design, construction, commissioning, operation,
maintenance and financing of the Port of Melbourne's new international
container terminal and empty container park (ECP) at Webb Dock was signed in
Melbourne on May 2 2014. The lease concession extends to 2040. Phase 1 of the
terminal, encompassing one 330 metres long berth fitted with three
post-Panamax ship-to-shore cranes, 23.7 hectares of yard and off-dock area
with fully automated operations from the gate to the quayside, is expected to
be completed by December 31 2016. It will boast an estimated capacity of
350,000TEUs and will be able to cater for vessels with capacity of up to
8,000TEUs. The terminal will be serviced by a 10 hectare empty container park
with a working capacity of some 200,000TEUs. Phase 2 is planned to become
operational by December 31 2017, delivering two additional post-Panamax
ship-to-shore cranes on a second 330 metres long berth. The fully developed
35.4 hectare terminal will have a total of six post-Panamax ship-to-shore
cranes on 660 meters of berth, and annual throughput capacity of up to 1.4mn
TEUs, with the empty container park's capacity of 280,000TEUs. The total
investment into the full development of the Webb Dock Container Terminal and
the ECP is estimated at AUD550mn and is part of the Port of Melbourne's
AUD1.6bn Port Capacity Project. ICTSI is being regularly rated by FinanceAsia
magazine as one of the best managed companies of the Philippines, following
votes cast by more than 300 investors and analysts.
Financial Data
H 1 20 14 ICTSI's net income attributable to equity holders
was up 23% year-on-year (y-o-y), from USD82.9mn in H113 to USD101.7mn in H114,
according to the
company's unaudited consolidated financial results for the first six months of
2014. ICTSI said such change was mainly due to strong operating income from
its three geographic segments and gains recognized on the sale of a
non-operating subsidiary in Cebu, Philippines, the termination of management
contract in Kattupalli, India, and the settlement of the insurance claims in
Guayaquil, Ecuador. Gross revenues from port operations were up 23% y-o-y,
from USD413.7mn to USD510.3mn. According to ICTSI, the increase in revenues
was mainly due to higher revenues from ancillary services, favourable volume
mix, tariff rate increases in certain terminals and revenue contribution from
new terminals in Manzanillo, Mexico and Puerto Cortes, Honduras. The organic
revenue growth - excluding the revenues from the newly acquired terminals -
amounted to 7%. ICTSI's seven key terminal operations in Manila, Brazil,
Poland, Ecuador, Madagascar, China and Pakistan accounted for 75% percent of
the consolidated revenues in H114. 2013 ICTSI's net income attributable to
equity holders of the parent increased by 20% y-o-y, from USD143.2mn in 2012

Page171of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.to USD172.4mn in 2013. Gross revenues from port operations were up 17% y-o-y,
from USD729.3mn to USD852.4mn. According to the company, the increase in
revenues was mainly due to volume growth, higher storage revenues and
ancillary services, tariff rate increases in certain key terminals, and the
revenue contribution from the new terminals in Jakarta, Indonesia and Karachi,
Pakistan, and the inclusion of the new terminals in Manzanillo, Mexico and
Puerto Cortes, Honduras The organic revenue growth - excluding the revenues
from the newly acquired terminals and the effect of the cessation of the
operations in Tartous, Syria - amounted to 7%. ICTSI's seven key terminal
operations in Manila, Brazil, Poland, Ecuador, Madagascar, China and Pakistan
accounted for 84% percent of the consolidated revenues in 2013. 2012 ICTSI has
posted its 2012 financial results, according to the Journal of Commerce in
March 2013. The company confirmed that net income came to USD143.2mn,
representing a y-o-y increase of 10%. The annual revenue attributed to its
port operations also grew by 10% y-o-y, coming to USD729.3mn. The volume of
twenty-foot-equivalent units handled throughout the year grew by 8% y-o-y,
hitting 5.63mn. 2011 In its 2011 annual report, ICTSI announced that it had
posted revenues from port operations of USD665mn, which represented a 26%
higher than the USD527mn reported in 2010. Earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) was USD281mn, a 14% higher rise than
was recorded in 2010. Net income attributable to equity holders increased by
33%, from USD98mn in 2010 to USD131mn in 2011. This higher net income of
USD131mn was mainly attributed to a result of higher revenues from 'increased
volumes, lower financing charges, lower effective tax rate and a one-time gain
on sale of non-core assets', ICTSI declared.
Latest Activity
announced a USD330mn investment in the expansion of the
Manila International Container Terminal (MICT) and an inland container depot
(ICD) in Calamba, Laguna. The investment will be made in the next 10 years,
according to ICTSI vice president and head for Asia, Pacific and the Sub
Continent, Christian R. Gonzalez. Of the total, USD100mn is expected to be
used for another berth facility and dockyard expansion inside MICT, USD200mn
for infrastructure and equipment and USD30mn for the development of the ICD in
Laguna. The investment is aimed at catering an expected increase in trade and
sustained growth of the Philippine economy, Gonzalez stated, as reported by
Manila Standard.

ICTSI To Invest USD330mn I n MICT A nd Laguna ICD ICTSI has

CO conter : International Container Terminal Services Inc | karwel : PT ICTSI Jasa Prima Tbk
IN

i5020017 : Harbor Construction | i763 : Port/Harbor Operations | i3255 : Handling Equipment | i32 :
Machinery | i502 : Heavy Construction | iconst : Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction | iindstrls :
Industrial Goods | iship : Water Transport/Shipping | itsp : Transportation/Shipping | i43 : Textiles | iclt :
Clothing/Textiles | icnp : Consumer Goods
c01 : Profiles of Companies | ncopro : Country Profiles | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content
Types
phlns : Philippines | india : India | zaire : Democratic Republic of the Congo | manil : Manila | melb :
Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | tamil : Tamil Nadu | africaz : Africa | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz :
Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | bric : BRICS Countries | ceafrz : Central Africa |
devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | indsubz : Indian Subcontinent |
sasiaz : Southern Asia | seasiaz : Southeast Asia

NS

RE

PUB Business Monitor International
AN

Document BMICOR0020141202eabq00007

Page172of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.