Patrick's next port of call: China

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Patrick's next port of call: China

Michael Smith
1,429 words
22 September 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
48
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Michael Smith

Patrick Ports is best known to many Australians as the former Chris Corrigan-run entity that was at the
centre of the bitter 1998 waterfront dispute in Melbourne.

A lot has happened since then. Patrick was swallowed up by logistics giant Toll Holdings and was
later spun off as part of the ports and rail outfit now known as Asciano.
Patrick is now on course for another ownership change, which is expected to put a significant stake of
the stevedoring giant in foreign hands. Asciano has been in long-running talks with its suitor,
state-owned conglomerate China Merchants, about selling off part of the business.

The cynics suggest the talks have gone on for too long without results and the two cannot agree on
price because the Chinese firm prefers majority control, something Asciano is not willing to give up.

But Asciano remains confident a deal will be secured by the end of the year, giving it a powerful new
ally in the increasingly competitive global shipping business and a potential entry point to expand
offshore.
A sale also heralds another new entrant into an increasingly crowded stevedoring market, as
Australia's ports sector heads for a major shake-up.
Governments are rushing to privatise the port infrastructure itself, generating billions of dollars in
revenue, but the stevedores are under growing pressure to forge new alliances and deal with fresh
competition for the first time in decades.

When containers were introduced more than four decades ago, the number of stevedores in Australia
dropped off dramatically because the business was suddenly so capital-intensive.

A cosy duopoly has dominated the Australian waterfront since the late 1990s – Asciano-owned Patrick
and DP World Australia. A new entrant, Hutchison Whampoa-owned Hutchison Ports, has the
incumbents on the defensive, although its Australian plans have got off to a slow start.Mullen's
strategy

There are two ways of looking at the potential transaction. Some see the desire to sell Patrick as chief
executive John Mullen distancing the company from the port operations, or exiting the business
altogether.

The obvious upside is a healthy injection to the balance sheet. Analysts have pegged Patrick's value
at $2 billion to $2.5 billion.

But it should also be viewed as a step in the opposite direction, as Asciano is looking at whether
forming a powerful alliance in Asia will bring global expansion opportunities.

Page135of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mullen knows Asia well, having run DHL Express Asia Pacific's operations there for several years.
Finding a partner like China Merchants would have been tough under Asciano's former management,
which took a more entrepreneurial approach to the business compared to Mullen, who has
corporatised the company.

Mullen has not spoken much about it publicly, but Asciano management see international growth and
expansion in stevedoring as a potential upside of a deal.
This could play out in a number of ways. The most likely scenario is a partial sale, which would give
China Merchant a direct equity investment in Patrick below 50 per cent, allowing Asciano to retain
control. Mullen is not ruling out a full sale for the right price – although this is seen as unlikely.
Interestingly, when Mullen first started in the job, investors were pushing for a sale or demerger of
Patrick, which did not have obvious synergies with the rail business.
Asciano and China Merchants could also look at forming an alliance without any equity changing
hands, but this is also seen as unlikely. The fourth scenario is that the two are unable to strike a deal
and nothing happens. Asciano says it is also talking to several other parties.
The main attraction in a tie-up with China Merchants, which has other port joint ventures in Asia and
Africa, is access to the customer relationships it has with global shipping lines. Ports and trade flows
are increasingly becoming global businesses and Patrick's biggest competitors are international
players.

Mullen has talked about making the container ports business part of a "global network". Patrick has
long-standing relationships with customers in Australia, but not offshore. There are also cost-saving
opportunities around suppliers and equipment like cranes and saddles.Consolidation trend

Longer-term, though, Asciano wants to look at growth in containers and other parts of the group, and
international expansion is a possibility, particularly if it has a platform to go offshore. On home soil,
competition is stiff and some analysts say the Australian market is not big enough to support three or
four global players. Volume growth has slipped and port operators are moving towards automation,
which allows them to move bigger loads than before.

The good news for Asciano is that Hutchison has been battling delays but is now working on hurrying
the development of new terminals in Sydney and Melbourne.
Part of Hutchison's problem has been trying to run the business out of Hong Kong, which it is seeking
to fix by sending its south-east Asia boss, Mark Jack, to Australia.

Hutchison has less than 3 per cent of the container ports market, while both Asciano and DP World
claim market share leadership. Asciano said at its full-year results in August that its market share over
the financial year was 48.5 per cent, compared to 47.5 per cent previously. But DP World claims a
50.4 per cent market share for the year to date.

Another new entrant, Filipino-owned International Container Terminal Services (ICTSI), has also
arrived on the scene, while Corrigan-chaired Qube Logistics is also a player – although it is worried
about rising cargo charges and over-capacity, which has diluted its appetite for terminal investments.
The potential Patrick-China Merchants tie-up is reflective of the consolidation and partnering going on
elsewhere in the sector. Hutchison and ICTSI are expected to explore a tie-up on the east coast,
which will further pressure the incumbents.

There is also some strategic sense in DP World tying up with Qube, but neither side is doing any work
on that idea at the moment. Both sides are unlikely to agree on whose asset is the most valuable.DP
World's push

DP World has been upping the ante since new chief executive Paul Scurrah was recruited last year to
give the operator a local focus, after years of being run out of the Middle East, with mixed results.

Scurrah has capitalised on a period of ownership uncertainty at Patrick to poach a number of key staff
– including former Freemantle operations manager Bruce Guy and national landside logistics
manager Greg Winstanley.
DP World Australia earlier this month announced an agreement to acquire a 50 per cent stake in
AWH Pty Ltd from Elders.
What Patrick is trying to do with China Merchants is partly a response to the powerful partnerships DP
World and Hutchison already have.

Page136of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.DP World has an Australian management team running the business locally while leveraging its
international partnership. This is a different approach to running the business like a branch office,
which is what happened previously.

Dubai-based DP World owns 25 per cent of the Australian ports business after selling a 75 per cent
stake in the business to Citi Infrastructure Investors in 2010.

Port automation has been a significant factor in the consolidation story. The ability to move containers
faster has made Hutchison's entry more problematic and means the industry needs fewer players
rather than more.

Analysts have valued the Patrick assets at around nine to 11 times earnings. Asciano argues it doesn't
need the capital and that is not what is driving the decision to partner with China Merchants.
Asciano is exiting a large capital investment phase as Mullen turns around the coal haulage and coal
operations. UBS analysts except the container ports business to grow at 2 per cent to 3 per cent over
market growth in the 2015 financial year. Still, a cash injection would be handy and could be used to
pay down debt, be reinvested back into the business to make it more efficient, or look at international
expansion opportunities.

Mullen does not want to rock the boat, though, now that a tough couple of years of restructuring and
cost-cutting are starting to reap rewards. He and the board will not want to do a deal that does
anything to increase debt or affect the current strategy of increasing dividends and cash flow.

Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan are advising on the deal.

michael.smith@afr.com.au

CO
IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

tolhld : Toll Holdings Ltd | lclaus : Patrick Corp | ascian : Asciano Ltd.
i77002 : Freight Transportation Arrangement | icargo : Freight/Cargo Transport | itsp :
Transportation/Shipping
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140921ea9m00010

Page137of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.