(AE) Ferret's MOVING FACES

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

(AE) Ferret's MOVING FACES

1,333 words
7 April 2014
Ralph Wragg Australian Business News
AAPRAW
English
Copyright 2014 RWE AUSTRALIAN BUSINESS NEWS PTY LTD. All Rights Reserved.

Sydney - Monday - April 7: (RWE Australian Business News) - A list of changes of management within
ASX-listed companies.

Moving in ...

* Deborah Page has been appointed as an independent non-executive director to the board of BT
Investment Management Ltd. Mrs Page is currently the chairman of Investa Listed Funds Management
Ltd (responsible entity of the Investa Office Fund) and is a non-executive director of Service Stream Ltd,
Australian Renewable Fuels Ltd, Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Ltd and Commonwealth
Insurance Ltd.

* Christina Ong has been appointed as a non-executive director of Singapore Telecommunications Ltd.

* Liquefied Natural Gas Ltd has appointed John Baguley as chief operating officer and Rick Cape as chief
commercial officer for its wholly-owned subsidiary Magnolia LNG LLC (MLNG), which is based in
Houston. Both executives will report directly to the president of MLNG, Maurice Brand. Mr Baguley has
over 30 years' experience with the global engineering, procurement and construction (EPC)
companyKBR Inc, including the last 13 years as a project director in the delivery of front end engineering
design and EPC services for major LNG plants and projects in Indonesia, Australia, Canada, China,
Taiwan and Malaysia.

Mr Cape has more than 30 years of leadership experience in the oil and gas industry, with some 20 years
with the BP group in the USA, UK, Australia and Caribbean. In 2002 he was elected by the shareholders
of the one of the world's largest producers of LNG, Atlantic LNG Company of Trinidad and Tobago, as
president and CEO to lead the growth of Atlantic LNG from one LNG train to its four-train, 15Mtpa
capacity.

* Redflex Holdings Ltd today announced the appointment of two new Australia-based non-executive
directors, Paul Clark and John Murphy. Mr Clark is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in
Australia and the Financial Services Institute of Australia. He has extensive experience at both a board
and executive level in financial restructuring, process improvement, risk management, cost reduction,
sales and business development and new product development. Mr Murphy is a Chartered Accountant
and a fellow of the Australian Society of Certified Practicing Accountants. Between 1999 and 2012 he
was the managing director of Investec Wentworth Private Equity Ltd, which had more than $500m funds
under management.

Rob Debernardi, who has served as a director of Redflex since 2002, has resigned as a director, as
foreshadowed during the last AGM. During his tenure, he applied his significant experience in assisting
companies involved in high-growth phases of their development to the benefit of Redflex.

* Red River Resources Ltd has appointed Erling Sorensen as non-executive chairman and Donald
Garner as managing director. Mr Sorensen has a strong background and breadth of experience in the
resource industry and logistics with more than 30 years' experience in a number of roles. Mr Sorensen
was chief commercial officer of Nyrstar from 2007 to 2010, which incorporates base metal mining and
smelting operations in Australia, Europe, North American and South America.

Mr Garner is a geologist with over 15 years' experience in the resource industry, corporate finance and
corporate development roles. He has a strong track record in the identification and acquisition of resource

Page218of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.projects, recently being responsible for New Age Exploration's Lochinvar coking coal project and Sirius
Minerals' York Potash project.

* Myo Myint has been appointed as chief financial officer of Aquaint Capital Holdings Ltd and its
subsidiaries. He joined as finance director of Aquaint Property Pte Ltd, a wholly-owned subsidiary of
Aquaint Capital Holdings, on January 6. He has previously held the role of chief financial officer of an
ASX-listed company and has over 20 years of experience in the finance field.

* Orion Gold NL today announced the appointment of its chief operating officer, experienced mining
executive and geologist Bill Oliver, to the board as technical director. He was co-founder and director of
Kamax Resources Ltd, which Orion acquired in March 2013 to secure its first strategic tenement holdings
in the Albany-Fraser Range Belt of Western Australia.

Following Mr Oliver's appointment and the recent relocation of Orion's principal place of business to Perth
from Melbourne, Martin Bouwmeester, who resides in Victoria, has stepped down from the board.
However, Mr Bouwmeester will remain as Orion's chief financial officer and company secretary on a
part-time basis.

* Jonathan Buckley has been appointed as a non-executive director of Adelaide Resources Ltd. Mr
Buckley is a corporate executive with extensive commercial and corporate finance experience spanning
over 25 years in Australia and the UK. He was previously group managing director for PhillipCapital
Australia, part of a leading Asian financial group providing corporate finance, funds management,
stockbroking and wealth management services in Australia.

Moving On ...

* Anne Weatherston is stepping down as ANZ's chief information officer. Her responsibilities will be
assumed by Alistair Currie, group chief operating officer, until a replacement is appointed. Mr Currie,
whose current role includes responsibility for technology, shared services and operations across ANZ,
said: "We have made very significant progress under Anne's leadership by establishing a transformation
roadmap for ANZ technology aligned to ANZ's super regional strategy."
* Alexander Downer has resigned from the board of Sun Resources NL, effective from April 17. He has
served as a non-executive director of Sun since September 23 2013. Mr Downer has advised that given
his recent appointment as High Commissioner to the United Kingdom, he is no longer able to fulfil the
requirements as a director on the Sun board.

* Cryosite Ltd today announced the retirement of managing director Gordon Milliken on April 9. He was a
founding director and was appointed managing director prior to its listing on the ASX in May 2002. Mr
Milliken has seen the growth of Cryosite from a novel concept to a listed company that at June 30 2013
employed 35 people, had sales of $9m, a net profit of $1.2 and positive cash flow of $1.3m. Executive
director Graeme Moore is to take on the role of acting CEO.

* Tempo Australia Ltd non-executive director Richard (Dick) Wright died yesterday morning. Mr Wright
was one of the founders of the company who, along with fellow director Carmelo Bontempo, created
Tempo in August 2011 where they sought to fill a perceived gap in the market as well as to improve
productivity and time performance of project delivery. Since the inception of Tempo, he worked tirelessly
on the advancement of the company. A mining and energy veteran, Mr Wright throughout his career held
numerous board and executive positions for both private and publicly listed companies in Australia,
Europe and the US. Most notably he held the positions of managing director of Fluor Daniel Australia,
executive chairman of Adrail for the construction of the Darwin-to-Alice Springs Railway, and more
recently project director of the large-scale Roy Hill iron ore project in the Pilbara of WA.

* As previously intimated, Mick McMullen has formally resigned as a director of Lachlan Star Ltd, three
months after relinquishing his position as executive chairman. Non-executive chairman Scott Perry
commented, "Mick's contribution to Lachlan Star since his appointment as a director in September 2007,
and more particularly his initiation and completion of the acquisition of the CMD Gold Mine in December
2010, has been instrumental in the company's transition to a gold producer."

* Bruce Lane has resigned as a director of Kunene Resources Ltd. Mr Lane played key roles during the
identification, transaction and subsequent integration of the acquisition of the Kaoko Project, Namibia.
CEO Brandon Munro has been appointed to the board as managing director.
* Matthew Johannes Waij has resigned as director of Sofcom Ltd. The company thanked Mr Waij for his
contribution.

Page219of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.* Francis Hui has resigned as chief financial officer and joint company secretary of Stone Resources
Australia Ltd to pursue other interests. The company has appointed Kelei Xin as joint company
secretary. Sheng Lu is remaining as joint company secretary.

CO

IN

NS

ajogau : Investa Office Fund | aurnwf : Australian Renewable Fuels Ltd. | btivmn : BT Investment
Management Ltd | lngl : Liquefied Natural Gas Limited | telas : Singapore Telecommunications Limited |
ttlcom : Service Stream Ltd | tmasek : Temasek Holdings Pte Ltd
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300004 : Liquefied/Compressed Gas | i7902 :
Telecommunications | i79022 : Wireless Telecommunications Services | i7902202 : Cellular
Telecommunications | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150211 : Unit Trusts/Mutual Funds |
i85 : Real Estate Transactions | ialtful : Alternative Fuels | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ifinal : Financial
Services | iinv : Investing/Securities | ireest : Real Estate
c411 : Management Moves | c41 : Management Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB RWE Australian Business News Pty Ltd
AN

Document AAPRAW0020140407ea470015p

Page220of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.