Chinese real estate invasion? Not according to the data, fellas

Chinese real estate invasion? Not according to the data, fellas

10 March 2014
Crikey
CRIKAU
English
(c) Copyright 2014 Private Media Partners Pty. Ltd. All Right Reserved.

by Bernard Keane

HD
BY
WC 938 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Complaints about Chinese buyers inflating house prices miss the fact that foreign residential property
investment encourages new housing construction.

http://media.crikey.com.au/wp-content/uploads/2014/03/houseprice3.jpgIt’s rare to see the Left and the
Right reaching consensus, but it appears nothing can pull Australians together as much as the threat
posed by Chinese property buyers.

Today Paul “Magic Water” Sheehan offered his take on the impact of Chinese buyers on the Sydney
residential property market. He warned darkly in today’s Sydney Morning Herald:

Sheehan, it seems, is was most worried about young people:

A pincer movement. Wow. But Sheehan was merely echoing Clive Hamilton, who recently wrote an article
for The Guardian originally headlined “Wealthy Chinese buyers are making Sydney’s housing problem
worse”. Hamilton’s piece commenced:
Cash pouring in from China” was responsible, Hamilton claimed — a “flood of unregulated investment”. It
touched on the same themes as Sheehan’s piece later would: young people priced out of the market,
official indifference, how Hong Kong doesn’t let the same thing happen.

But the headline on Hamilton’s piece was changed to “Foreign demand is making Sydney’s housing
problem worse” after an outcry from readers. The Guardian offered an apologia almost as long as the
article itself admitting a number of problems with Hamilton’s article, although “the author stands by his
opinion”.
Hamilton and Sheehan aren’t the only ones, though. This “flood” of unregulated money from China is
becoming a staple of media real estate coverage, especially in Fairfax papers, which have carried articles
about the Chinese property “splurge” as real estate prices, especially in Sydney, have soared.
Well, let’s try some facts, courtesy of the Foreign Investment Review Board’s 2012-13 annual report,
which has data on who is buying residential property. Total foreign investment in residential property
in Australia fell in 2012-13, from $19.7 billion to $17.2 billion. That was because of a fall in “off-the-plan”
purchases; purchases of existing dwelling stock increased to $5.4 billion (it had fallen in 2011-12), and
purchases of vacant land had more than doubled to $1.4 billion. Victoria and New South Wales dominate
as destinations for foreign investment in residential property, garnering around $5.8 billion and $5.5
billion respectively.
But importantly, foreign residential real estate investment skews toward new dwelling construction: in
2012-13, despite the fall-off in off-the-plan purchasing, $8.64 billion in foreign investment was for new
dwellings, with a further $2 billion for other development, while investment in existing dwellings was $6.4
billion. The predominance of new dwelling investment in foreign residential investment is dramatically at
odds with the rest of the market, where new dwelling investment is a fraction of housing finance.
Where does the investment come from? Residential property investment from China is substantial.
Chinese buyers are the biggest foreign real estate investors: in 2012-13 they purchased just under $6
billion in real estate — but that includes commercial real estate, which is twice as large a target for
foreign investment as residential real estate. But Canada and the United States aren’t far behind the

Page110of270©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Chinese; Canadians invested just under $5 billion in Australian real estate, and Americans $4.4 billion.
Singapore was next with $2 billion, then Malaysia with $1.6 billion; in between were the British, on $1.7
billion.
So, even arbitrarily and xenophobically combining all Chinese, Singaporean, Hong Kong and Malaysian
real estate investment under a “Chinese” stereotype means “China” is only just ahead of North American
real estate investment (and again, remember that these figures include commercial real estate). And if
you lump in the Brits and the Kiwis, investment from “white” foreigners exceeds that from “Chinese”
foreigners.
Read many stories about white people driving up Sydney real estate prices? Of course not. Hard to get a
good anecdote about white people showing up to an auction and bidding successfully for a property.
“Chinese” buyers, even if their families have lived in Australia for a century, are easier to spot and
complain about.
But let’s assume that all “Chinese” property investment — just over $10 billion of it in 2012-13 — was for
residential property, which we know isn’t true. How much of an impact does that have? The total value
of housing finance commitments (which isn’t all housing purchases anyway) was $264 billion in 2012-13,
so our “Chinese” stereotype is investing less than 4%.

And even if you think 4% is too high and is placing too much pressure on prices, ask sellers in Sydney
and Melbourne what they think of foreign residential buyers. Chances are they’re perfectly happy to be
getting higher prices.

There are legitimate grounds for concern about housing affordability, but they’ve got little to do foreign
property buyers, whether Chinese, Canadian or any other ethnicity. They’re related to land supply,
planning laws, development approval processes, NIMBYism, the balance between local councils and
developers financing the necessary infrastructure for new housing, and tax expenditures that encourage
investment in existing housing stock. The best way to improve housing affordability — assuming that’s
what you really want to do, given ultimately that will reduce the rise in value of the key asset of most
voters — is to create incentives for investment in building new housing stock.

And oddly enough, at the moment it’s foreign investors who are doing that, not the rest of us.

RF
NS
RE

http://www.crikey.com.au/?p=427969
ereal : Real Estate Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News
china : China | austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries
| dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | nswals : New South Wales

PUB Private Media Partners Pty Ltd.
AN

Document CRIKAU0020140310ea3a00006

Page111of270©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.