Year of surprises reaches an end

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Year of surprises reaches an end

Property observed Robert Harley
545 words
18 December 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
33
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Robert Harley

Lower for longer is the interest rate mantra as the new year approaches. If that is the case, the
money will continue to flow to real estate in 2015.

But remember the warnings about that money, from Cromwell Property Group's Paul Weightman
and the Abacus Property Group's Frank Wolf.
A year ago many, including me, expected a rise in rates. When it didn't happen, commercial sales
volumes hit record highs, real estate investment trusts rallied strongly and housing finished the year
surprisingly solidly.

Interest rates could surprise again. Perhaps with a cut, but maybe a rise. UBS economist Scott
Haslem, expects the Reserve Bank to move up in July.

The other surprise of 2014 was the weakness of the local economy.

"This will be a long and difficult transition (from the resources investment boom)" says BIS Shrapnel
economist Frank Gelber.

Nevertheless, most expect a grinding improvement in the fundamentals, at least in Sydney and
Melbourne in 2015.

Colliers International chief executive, Australia & New Zealand, John Kenny, says 2014 was the
year that investment in property continued to accelerate, that NSW returned as a growth economy,
and that signs emerged of improved leasing demand.

He expects "more of the same, with investment volumes likely to continue to rise and tenant demand
continuing to improve".

JLL's CEO in Australia, Stephen Conry, predicts effective rental growth of 3 per cent in central
business district office markets, with the strongest growth in Sydney and Melbourne.

"2015 can be the year incentives move back below 30 per cent in Sydney and Melbourne," he says.

CBRE's Australian head of research, Stephen McNabb, said that more favourable trading conditions
for retail and industrial occupiers, combined with contained supply, would provide "some support" for
rental growth. With investor demand strong, Macquarie's Rod Cornish expects further cap rate
compression.
Conry expects a slower year for transactions but still 4 to 5 per cent growth in values in the Sydney
and Melbourne CBDs.

Page238of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Other macro impacts on local property will be the turmoil in markets like Russia; the falling
Australian dollar which has boosted tourism and drawn expats back to prime Sydney housing and
the China story. Real estate website Juwai.com predicts Chinese investment will grow another 15
to 20 per cent next year.

In housing the surge in values in Sydney and Melbourne is slowing but most expect demand to hold
for several years to come. Cornish says housing affordability in Sydney and Melbourne, though
squeezed, is unlikely to reach the tipping point at which prices retreat, not until rates rise in 2016.

Sectors of oversupply, dampening rents, will emerge as apartments are completed. But the big issue
for housing developers is how to restock after a dramatic surge in site prices.
Property will also face other challenges in 2015. Top of the list for the Property Council CEO, Ken
Morrison is the white paper on reform of Australia's tax system.

"We can be big winners or losers," he says. Stamp duty reform would be a win; crimped negative
gearing would be a loss.

Thanks for your support and suggestions through the year. Have a great break.

rharley@afr.com.au

CO
IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

abap : Abacus Property Group | wriv : Cromwell Property Group
ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles |
i8150206 : Investment Trusts/Funds | i815020602 : Real Estate Investment Trusts | i85 : Real Estate
Transactions | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | sydney : Sydney | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia
Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South Wales
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141217eaci0000r

Page239of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.