Horrible sense of deja vu at Ten AGM

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Horrible sense of deja vu at Ten AGM

BEN BUTLER, MARGIN CALL
636 words
18 December 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
27
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

They were frustrating times at the Ten Network AGM yesterday as directors were bombarded with
endless questions about Citigroup’s attempts to flog off the struggling broadcaster.
Like Ten’s TV audience, attendees were served a diet of repeats, again and again told that the sale
process was ongoing and there was no guarantee a deal will be struck.

The only moment of laughter was at the expense of David Gyngell, the James Packer-punching boss
of rival Nine.

Analyst Roger Colman congratulated Ten CEO Hamish McLennan on his prudence and efforts to
reduce the cost base in a tough ad market, saying: “Unlike other networks you don’t run on
bottomless tracksuit pants” — a reference to both Gyngell’s fashion choices and his big-spending
ways when it comes to sports rights.

As fans of impromptu pugilism will recall, Gyngell chose to wear junkie-style trackie dacks during
May’s Bondi billionaire biffo.

Danny plays it straight BIG four bank Westpac looks set to sign a new sponsorship deal with Eddie
McGuire’s AFL powerhouse club, Collingwood.

The bank and the Pies announced a five-year deal, described by Westpac as “the most important in
the club’s history”, in 2010. Time is now up and club and bank are talking about where to go from
here.

Nothing is signed yet and Westpac flack Danny John was only moderately forthcoming. “We have
enjoyed a long-standing and fruitful relationship with Collingwood and are currently in discussions with
the club about ongoing sponsorship opportunities,” he said.

Not grovelling enough CONTRARY to a report in yesterday’s Herald Sun, Miranda Kerr’s mate
Charlie Goldsmith is pressing ahead with his defamation lawsuit against Melbourne radio station
Triple R and law student Raph Brous, even though the community broadcaster has delivered a
grovelling apology.

Goldsmith, who runs fashionista PR house AMPR, is suing over a late-night broadcast in August
during which Brous allegedly called Goldsmith an “Aryan ubermensch”, a “knob jockey” and an “A1
turd burglar”.

Last weekend Triple R manager Dave Houchin took to Facebook to “unreservedly apologise” for the
“regrettable incident”.

But on Friday Goldsmith’s lawyer, Stuart Gibson, had filed a summons for directions at the Victorian
Supreme Court — still listing both Brous and Triple R as defendants. No doubt all will be explained at
the hearing on February 13.

Page226of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Address holds the key WHAT on earth does the corporate watchdog have against 2 Miami Key, on
the canals of the sunny Gold Coast?
Yesterday, ASIC revealed that, in a precedent-setting first ever prosecution of a company for a
breach of the takeovers law, Avestra Asset Management had been fined $40,000 after pleading guilty.
Sadly, the company had forgotten to tell the exchange that funds it manages had snapped up more
than 50 per cent of funds manager and broker AG Financial, and also neglected to make a takeover
bid as required by law. Avestra’s address? 2 Miami Key.

Coincidentally, ASIC has banned a prospectus issued by Bridge Global Capital management to raise
$6m in order to buy Bridge Global Securities, a company that in turn controls half of fund managers
in the Cayman Islands and Hong Kong. The two companies have a director in common with Avestra,
Jason Dixon. And BGS’s address? Surprise! 2 Miami Key.

Tight squeeze THE incoming boss of funeral group InvoCare, Martin Earp, has plenty of experience
putting people in small boxes: he’s CEO at student accommodation group Campus Living Villages.

Margin Call was going to say that at least InvoCare’s customers don’t complain about their cramped
quarters, but was reminded the company was fined $100,000 last month for misleading and
deceptive conduct.butlerb@theaustralian.com.au

CO

IN
NS
RE
PUB
AN

neten : Ten Network Holdings Ltd | cnwstb : Canwest Global Communications Corp | scable : Shaw
Communications Inc
i97411 : Broadcasting | i9741102 : Television Broadcasting | imed : Media/Entertainment
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141217eaci0004k

Page227of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.