Palmer royalties case twists again

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

General
Palmer royalties case twists again

Nick Evans
332 words
21 March 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
First
16
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

China’s CITIC Pacific has flagged a claim against Clive Palmer for abuse of the legal process after
the mining magnate’s privately owned Mineralogy company backflipped on its legal arguments in a
multimillion-dollar lawsuit for the second time in four months.

In the Supreme Court yesterday, Justice James Edelman banned Mr Palmer from making any further
changes to legal pleadings without the court’s permission in its case against CITIC over disputed
royalty payments.

The court was told Mineralogy’s latest backflip, flagged in WestBusiness on Wednesday, was its
second strategy reversal since November, and Mr Palmer had also changed his legal team three
times in the last year.
At stake is hundreds of millions of dollars in production royalties from CITIC’s Sino Iron magnetite
project in the Pilbara.

The formula for calculating the payments under the agreement signed by CITIC when it bought into
the project in 2006 relied on an iron ore pricing benchmark long since abandoned by the rest of the
industry, sparking the dispute about how it would now be calculated.

Until late last year Mineralogy had claimed payments could still be calculated using the original
agreement, but Mr Palmer abruptly changed tack in November, instead arguing that the failure to
agree to a new formula frustrated the entire agreement, entitling him to kick CITIC off the project it
has spent $10 billion building.

CITIC lawyer Charles Scerri told the court yesterday it was unclear whether Mineralogy’s latest legal
backflip was because of a confused strategy or was “conducted with an ulterior purpose”. “They have
made another backflip, reversing the last backflip,” he said.

“If there is method in this madness it looks like it would be an abuse of process.”

Justice Edelman said it appeared Mineralogy’s latest reversal meant the dispute had returned to
where it was 12 months ago.

Lawyers for Mineralogy told the court they were happy to consent to the orders.

CO
IN
NS

RE

skfdev : CITIC Pacific Limited
i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
c12 : Corporate Crime/Legal Action | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

Page243of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB
AN

West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document TWAU000020140320ea3l0000f

Page244of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.