INDUSTRY SNAPSHOTS; OCEANIA - AUSTRALIA - METAL AND MINING

HD

WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

INDUSTRY SNAPSHOTS; OCEANIA - AUSTRALIA -
METAL AND MINING
18,368 words
15 October 2014
Industry Snapshot
ACQIND
English
Copyright 2014. Acquisdata Pty Ltd.

LATEST COMPANY NEWS

News and Commentary

Australia's coal sector defies all comers to keep on
mining - 13/10/2014
Australian coal output is hitting record highs and
producers are pressing on with plans to open new
mines.

For the complete story see:
(http://in.reuters.com/article/2014/10/12/coal
-australia-idINL3N0S702H20141012)
Bidness ETC - Rio’s Acquisition of Freeport Could
Ward off Rio-Glencore Merger - 12/10/2014
Rio Tinto is deliberating over purchasing another mining
company.

For the complete story see:
(http://www.bidnessetc.com/27122-rios-acquisition
-of-freeport-could-ward-off-rioglencore-merger/)
Business Today - Lanco in talks to sell stake in Griffin
coal mine - 11/10/2014
Lanco is in talks with investors to sell a stake in its
Griffin coal mine in Australia.

For the complete story see:

(http://businesstoday.intoday.in/story/lanco-in-talks-to-
sell-stake-in-griffin-coal-mine/1/211277.html)
ABC Online - China's push for coal import tariff could
cost Australian mining jobs - 10/10/2014
China's decision to impose tariffs on coal imports could
cause mine closures and job losses in Australia.

For the complete story see:
(http://www.abc.net.au/news/2014-10-10/chinas
-push-for-coal-import-tariff-could-cost-jobs/5803494)
SteelGuru - Mining efficiency drops 40pct in Australian
iron ore mines - 10/10/2014

Page108of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PricewaterhouseCoopers said that its studies have
shown efficiency of use of mining equipment in
Australia has dropped.

For the complete story see:
(http://www.steelguru.com/international_news/Mining
_efficiency_drops_40pct_in_Australian_iron_ore
_mines/350678.html)

Media Releases
BHP Billiton Opens Caval Ridge Metallurgical Coal Mine
in Central Queensland – 13/10/2014
Today BHP BillitonCoal President, Dean Dalla Valle,
was joined by the Hon. Tony Abbott MP, Prime Minister
of Australia, and joint venture partner Mitsubishi in a
ceremony to open the US$3.4 billion Caval Ridge Mine,
which has created around 500 jobs in Queensland.

Caval Ridge Mine is the BHP Billiton Mitsubishi
Alliance’s (BMA)1 eighth operation in the region and will
initially produce up to 5.5 million tonnes per annum of
premium quality metallurgical coal. The mine was
delivered below budget, and produced its first coal three
months ahead of schedule.

Mr Dalla Valle said the official opening was an
opportunity for BHP Billiton and Mitsubishi to showcase
a world class new mine in Queensland, which will
contribute to Australia’s coal export industry.

“Today’s opening of the Caval Ridge Mine is a
significant milestone for BHP Billiton. The operation will
produce metallurgical coal for the steel industry and has
been constructed with the latest technology to be one of
the most productive, sustainable and highly performing
metallurgical coal mines in the world,” he said.
“Energy efficiency is a key focus for the mine and was
built into its design and management system. This
includes the use of highly efficient equipment and the
optimisation of truck, shovel and dragline movements.
This improves the efficiency of our energy use and
helps minimise our greenhouse gas emissions.

“Since commencing operation, the Caval Ridge team
has already achieved an Australian record for the
amount of overburden moved by a shovel in one week.”
Mr Dalla Valle noted that recently BHP Billiton’s Coal
business has needed to make some difficult decisions to
ensure its operations remain sustainable.

“We are confident that if we maintain our productivity
focus then we will continue to have a globally
competitive business that will provide employment
opportunities for generations to come,” he said.

Mr Dalla Valle said he was proud of the diverse
workforce at Caval Ridge Mine, which helps shape a
positive and productive culture at site.

“Caval Ridge Mine’s workforce, who commute from
Cairns and Brisbane, include 21 per cent females, three
per cent Indigenous and 43 per cent new-to-industry
employees. We have invested considerably in recruiting

Page109of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.and training new entrants to the coal industry who will
work alongside some of our experienced operators,” he
said.

“Having a FIFO operation enabled us to reach a wider
potential employee pool across the State, not only
bringing greater diversity but also enabling us to share
the economic benefits of the mine more broadly. Over
30,000 people applied for around 950 roles at Caval
Ridge and its sister mine Daunia.”

BHP Billiton, in partnership with Mitsubishi, is the largest
employer in the Bowen Basin region, with over 7,000
employees. Of the eight operations, six have a
residential workforce and FIFO is just one part of the
company’s workforce offering, enabling choice for
employees on where they would like to work and live.

(
http://www.bhpbilliton.com/home/investors/news/Pages/
Articles/BHP-Billiton-Opens-Caval-Ridge-Metallurgical-
Coal-Mine-in-Central-Queensland.aspx)

Statement regarding press speculation – 7/10/2014
The board of Rio Tinto notes the recent press
speculation regarding a possible combination of Rio
Tinto and Glencore.
The Rio Tintoboard confirms that no discussions are
taking place with Glencore.

In July 2014, Glencore contacted Rio Tinto regarding a
potential merger of Rio Tinto and Glencore.
The Rio Tintoboard, after consultation with its financial
and legal advisers, concluded unanimously that a
combination was not in the best interests of Rio Tinto's
shareholders.
The board's rejection was communicated to Glencore in
early August and there has been no further contact
between the companies on this matter.

Rio Tinto remains focused on the successful execution
of its strategy, which the board of Rio Tinto is confident
will continue to deliver significant and sustainable value
for shareholders.

Rio Tinto chairman Jan du Plessis said "Under the
leadership of Sam Walsh and Chris Lynch, Rio Tinto has
made significant progress in refocusing and
strengthening its business.
"The board believes that the continued successful
execution of Rio Tinto's strategy will allow Rio Tinto to
increase free cash flow significantly in the near term and
materially increase returns to shareholders. Rio Tinto's
shareholders stand to benefit from the very considerable
value that this will generate."

(
http://www.riotinto.com/media/media-releases-
237_12910.aspx)
Company Response Iluka’s Sustainabilty Credentials –
6/10/2014

Page110of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Iluka Resources Limited (Iluka) is confident of its
sustainability credentials. It is not apparent on what
bases the research commissioned by the ANU would
have determined Iluka is other than an ethical and
environmentally responsible company. The company
operates a Governance framework in compliance with
ASX Corporate Governance Principles and has a
commitment to the highest standards of health, safety
and environmental performance. The company has a
track record of responsible rehabilitation of areas
disturbed by mining.

Iluka was recognised by the South Australian
Government for its environmental performance, awarded
the 2014 Premier’s Award for Environmental Excellence
and partners with the University of Western Australia
through funding a professorial chair for the restoring of a
unique bio diverse environment in Western Australia.
The company has likewise been accorded external
recognition for its approach to social inclusion relating to
indigenous employment, business development and
mentoring programmes.

The materials which Iluka mines and processes are
used in a myriad of daily applications: paint and
coatings, including for pills and foodstuffs; titanium
metal; ceramics and in a range chemical applications.
Iluka recognises the need for, and ensures it conducts
its activities, to meet the highest sustainability
standards.

Some examples of Iluka’s sustainability credentials are
provided below.

Environment

Iluka was awarded the SA Premier’s Award for
Environmental Excellence in 2014 in relation to
environmental management practices at its
Jacinth-Ambrosia mine in South Australia.

The attached link provides information on the mineral
sands mining process, with examples under the
Rehabilitation relating to company practices in the
Murray Basin, Victoria and Eucla Basin, South Australia.

Iluka also has a collaboration with the University of
Western Australian and sponsors a professorial chair in
bio diversity

Diversity and Social Inclusion

Iluka achieved a South Australian Award for Social
Inclusion in 2013 its commitment to indigenous
employment, education and business development
programs implemented in partnership with the Far West
Coast Native Title Claimant Group associated with its
Jacinth-Ambrosia mineral sands operation in South
Australia."

Water management award – Western Australia

Iluka gained the Women in Resources Award (Western
Australia), 2014 from the Chamber of Minerals and
Energy’s Women in Resources Awards, for achieving
improved site female representation and the
introduction of a values-based recruitment process.

Page111of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Iluka awarded the Gender Diversity Champion in
Australian Resources, at the inaugural Women in
Resources National Awards, September 2014.

Safety

Following the implementation of a safety leadership
programme in mid 2013, Iluka has materially improved
its safety performance and would be considered to have
a leading safety performance for a resources company.

(
http://www.iluka.com/docs/default-source/media-
releases/media-release---company
-response-iluka's-sustainability-credentials-(6-oct-2014))

Latest Research
Conservation and Access to Land for Mining in
Protected Areas: The Conflict Over Mining in South
Australia’s Arkaroola Wilderness Sanctuary

Alexandra Wawryk

Abstract

This article discusses the continuing legal complexities
and challenges that exist in balancing the interests of
mining and conservation in protected areas, through an
exploration and critical analysis of the law relating to
mining and protected areas in South Australia, and a
case study of the recent controversy over mining in the
Arkaroola Wilderness Sanctuary. The analysis of the
legal regime demonstrates a hierarchy in procedural
protection, with areas of public land with very high
conservation values at the top of the hierarchy, and
private land generally at the bottom. The resolution of
the conflict over mining in Arkaroola, and reforms
subsequently proposed to South Australia’s system of
protected areas, suggest new ways to better protect
conservation from mining on private land.

(
http://jel.oxfordjournals.org/content/early/2014/05/19/jel.
equ008.abstract)

The Industry

Minerals Industry Will Need 18,000 New Employees To
2018

The release today of the Australian Workforce and
Productivity Agency’s (AWPA) latest report on the
resources sector’s skilled labour needs confirms that
mining will continue to expand in the years ahead,
providing a critical boost to the domestic economy.

The AWPA’s Resources Sector Skills Needs 2013 report
shows that minerals industry operations will need
around 18,000 more skilled workers through to 2018 –
as the sector moves from the construction to production
phase of the millennium mining boom.

The minerals industry has strong skills foundations in
place and welcomes AWPA’s acknowledgement of the
sector’s focus on the skilling and development of its
workforce. This includes:

Page112of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Spending 5.5 per cent of payroll on training activities,
with one in twenty employees being an apprentice or a
trainee;

the contribution to higher education outcomes, with the
MCA-operated Minerals Tertiary Education Council
(MTEC) contributing $36 million since 1999 to tertiary
minerals disciplines;

Innovative efforts to overcome skills shortages via:

the MTEC Associate Degree program, designed to free
up the time of engineers and geologists by producing a
new cadre of educated technicians, who will have
pathways to full degree status;

programs to cross-train workers in different industry
disciplines such as the MCA/NFF/Commonwealth Skills
MOU and the Regional Agriculture and Mining
Integrated Training Initiative

Efforts to encourage under-represented groups to take
part in the industry – specifically the increase in
indigenous participation (at 3.1 per cent, the highest
workforce participation rate of all industries) and women
(an increase in the percentage of female participants in
the minerals workforce from 11 per cent in 2003 to 16
per cent in August 2013).

The importance of Long Distance Commuting and
skilled migration to the skills needs of the industry.

(
http://www.minerals.org.au/news/minerals_industry_will_
need_18000_new_employees_to_2018)

Leading Companies

Arrium Ltd (ASE: ARI)
Arrium Mining Quarterly Production Report

For the quarter ended 30 June 2014

• Shipments of 3.16Mt (dmt), up 0.13Mt on prior quarter

• Record sales of 3.32Mt (dmt), up 0.13Mt on prior
quarter

• Record full year shipments of 12.5Mt (dmt), up 4.4Mt
on prior year

• Annualised shipment rate of ~13Mt (dmt) expected to
be achieved in 1Q FY15

• Average Platts market index price (62% Fe CFR)
US$103/dmt, down US$18/dmt on prior quarter

• Average realised price ~US$85/t CFR (dmt), down
US$25/t on prior quarter

• Average grade of shipments 59.6% Fe, average for full
year 59.9% Fe

• Average cash cost loaded on ship A$45.9/wmt, down
from A$47.4/wmt in prior period

• New tug fleet commissioned May – greater operational
weather resilience and faster barge towage

Page113of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.• Re-development of Iron Knob Mining Area
progressing in line with schedule and budget

• Completed ramp up of Magnetite expansion project

Market

The Platts 62% Fe index averaged US$103/t CFR (dmt),
a US$18/t decrease compared to the prior quarter.
Arrium’s average price of US$85/t CFR (dmt) was down
USS$25/t compared to the prior quarter. On an FOB
basis, Arrium’s average price was down US$23/t to
US$71/t (dmt) 4

.

In Australian dollars, Arrium’s average price for the
quarter was $92/t CFR (dmt), and $77/t (dmt) on an
FOB basis. Market prices were under pressure in the
quarter due to factors including increased discounting
related to additional supply (particularly lower grade
ores), the tightening of credit in China and higher port
stocks in China. Arrium’s realised CFR price as a
percentage of the Platts average price decreased
compared to the prior quarter, reflecting a significantly
lower premium for lump ores, increased shipments of
medium grade ores (largely related to the impact of
adverse weather on Southern Iron volumes), increased
market discounting for medium grade ores, and some
pricing adjustments for contract customers. Arrium has a
range of pricing arrangements with its contract
customers, some of which settle in subsequent
periods.Lower prices in the June quarter led to
adjustments for some prior period shipments. The
impact in the quarter of the prior period price
adjustments on Arrium’s average CFR price was US$2/t.
Excluding the impact of prior period adjustments,
Arrium’s Opal Blend and Whyalla Blend products, which
averaged ~60% Fe, achieved average prices for the
quarter of above 90% of the Platt 62% Fe index.

For the full year, Arrium’s average price was US$111/t
CFR (dmt), or ~91% of the average Platts 62% index
price. Arrium is continuing to broaden its customer base
in the North Asian region, both in and outside China.

Production and Shipping
Hematite ore mined for export in the Middleback
Ranges was 1,944k (wmt) for the quarter, up 20% on
the prior quarter. The higher output related to increased
mining at the Iron Chieftain.
Ore mined at Peculiar Knob in our Southern Iron
operation was 854k (wmt), down 18% compared to the
prior quarter. A significant rain deluge in April halted
mining and trucking for almost a week, resulting in the
loss of rail paths to Whyalla. However, increased supply
chain flexibility related to the recent expansion enabled
lost production from Southern Iron to be largely
supplemented with material from the Middleback region,
albeit at a slightly lower grade.
Ore shipments of 3,159k (dmt) for the quarter were 133k
(dmt) above ore shipments in the prior quarter. An
upgraded tug fleet was commissioned in May enabling
transhipping to cope with a broader range of operational

Page114of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.and weather conditions. The quarter also included a
number of Port records, including a record cape loading
rate of 3.9 days, and a record vessel lift of 201,160
(wmt) on the vessel MV Yuan Wang Hai. Utilising larger
vessels reduces sea freight on a $/t basis as it reduces
the number of vessels required.

Costs
Arrium Mining’s average cash cost loaded on the ship
(excluding royalties and depreciation) was A$45.9/wmt
for the quarter, A$1.5/wmt lower than for the prior
period. This was achieved partly through cost benefits at
the Middleback Ranges operation from increased
mining volumes, the utilisation of lower valued
stockpiled materials and improved efficiencies and cost
management processes. The average cost also reflects
a reduced proportion of higher cost Opal Blend in the
sales mix.

Development
Iron Knob Mining Area
Arrium is continuing its re-development of the Iron Knob
Mining Area as part of its focus on utilising the
expanded port capability of ~13mtpa. The project
comprises three open cut mine pits (Monarch, Princess
East and Princess West). The project is continuing to
run to schedule and budget. The tender for the rail
reinstatement to the site was issued in March and
design work on the crushing plant circuit design is
continuing. The pit mining sequence is on plan and
drilling and blasting is also on schedule. First ores are
expected in the first half of FY15.

Magnetite Optimisation Project

This project includes the installation of a tertiary grinder
and modifications to the existing grinding circuit to allow
the concentrator to treat a wider range of ores, as well
as maximise product recovery through fine grinding
technology. The project benefits include additional
output (pellets, lump or concentrate) of ~400kt per
annum with reduced mining activity based on the
consumption of stockpiled materials. The construction
phase of the project was completed in November ahead
of schedule and budget. Focus is now on delivering
further operational benefits including increased output of
magnetite concentrate.

Exploration

Exploration activity continues to focus on:

• Adding to or extending the mine life of existing
operations to utilise the full capacity of the Whyalla Port

• Investigating further ferrous and non-ferrous
opportunities across the Middleback Ranges and
Southern
Iron tenements

Drilling activity in the June quarter totalled 13,867m. The
program included resource definition and extension
Reverse Circulation (RC) drilling and specialist
hydrogeological drilling. Up to four rigs were allocated to

Page115of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.the Hematite stream, with a strong focus on the
Middleback Ranges projects.

In the northern portion of the South Middleback Ranges
project area, resource definition and extension RC
drilling continued at Iron Chieftain. Drilling focussed on
inferred extensions to the mineralised envelope over a
700m long zone to the north of the Chieftain pit.
In the Iron Baron area, RC drilling commenced at
prospects adjacent to the Iron Queen pit. At Queen
Outlier, immediately to the south west of the Queen pit,
drilling commenced to test an area of ferruginous
material identified in outcrop during field mapping.
In the Iron Monarch area, RC drilling was carried out to
test the potential for mineralisation immediately to the
north of the Monarch pit and at Iron Princess. In
addition, hydrological drilling comprising pump testing
and analysis to support mine planning commenced at
Iron Princess.
In the Southern Iron project portfolio, resource definition
and extension RC drilling continued on the Hawks Nest
project at the Buzzard and Tui hematite prospects.
Drilling focussed particularly on new hematite targets to
the south west of Buzzard, identified by the high
resolution ground gravity survey completed in late 2013.
Beyond the immediate Buzzard-Tui area, a further
ground gravity survey was completed over all interpreted
prospective iron formation within the Hawks Nest
project area.

Drilling and assay results from these programs are being
progressively incorporated into the mine plan.

In addition, planning for further high resolution ground
gravity surveys to assist in targeting for both the ferrous
and non-ferrous programs was finalised in the
Middleback Ranges and the Southern Iron tenements. A
number of areas considered prospective for non-ferrous
opportunities related to the Gawler Craton Iron Oxide
Copper Gold mineralising event have been defined
across the project portfolio.

(
http://www.arrium.com/~/media/Files/ASX%20Announce
ments/FY2014/Arrium%20Mining%20Quarterly%20Prod
uction%20Report%2021%20July%202014.pdf)
Alumina Ltd (ASE: AWC)

Alcoa Second Quarter Earnings Results
Alumina Limited notes Alcoa Inc’s (“Alcoa”) quarterly
earnings release and attaches it for reference. Relevant
market data to assist readers in understanding the
market, operational and commercial matters of Alcoa
World Alumina & Chemicals (“AWAC”) are also
attached.
Alumina Limited’s CEO Peter Wasow, commented,
“Margins for the alumina segment declined over the
second quarter from the first quarter predominately due
to a higher Australian dollar and Brazilian Real, the
timing of maintenance, and higher oil costs. Industry
conditions remained challenging due to long refining

Page116of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.positions in the Atlantic region and China as smelter
curtailments in those areas reduced demand.”
AWAC’s production of alumina was 3.9 million tonnes
for the second quarter.
Alumina Limited received capital and income
repayments from AWAC of $20 million in the second
quarter bringing the total receipts to $54 million for the
first half of this year. Alumina Limited’s capital
contributions to AWAC were $14 million during the
second quarter and $32 million for the first half.
Alumina Limited’s net debt was $134 million at the end
of June 2014.

Alcoa Reports Strong Second Quarter 2014 Profits
Driven By Continued Portfolio Transformation

2Q 2014 Highlights
• Net income of $138 million, or $0.12 per share;
excluding special items, net income of $216 million, or
$0.18 per share, up sequentially and year-over-year
• Revenue of $5.8 billion, up 7 percent sequentially,
steady from the prior year period

• Engineered Products and Solutions delivers highest
after-tax-operating income in history of $204 million;
record adjusted EBITDA margin of 23.1 percent

• Global Rolled Products after-tax-operating income up
34 percent sequentially

• Upstream business improves performance for 11th
consecutive quarter
• $302 million in productivity gains across all segments
year-over-year

• Lowest net debt since third quarter 2007; cash on hand
of $1.2 billion
• $518 million cash from operations; $260 million
positive free cash flow

• Global aluminum demand growth forecast of 7 percent
in 2014 reaffirmed; global aluminum deficit increasing;
global alumina surplus shrinking

2Q 2014 Portfolio Transformation Highlights

• Announced agreement to acquire Firth Rixson, global
jet engine component leader; expected to contribute
$1.6 billion in incremental revenues and $350 million
EBITDA in 2016
• Investing $125 million in Alcoa Power and Propulsion
(APP) to expand advanced jet engine component
offerings;
APP revenues to reach $2.2 billion in 2016

• Expansion in Davenport, Iowa ramping up production
to serve automotive demand; Tennessee auto
expansion on track

Page117of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.• Safely completed previously announced curtailments
of 147,000 metric tons of smelting capacity in Brazil
• Letter of intent signed to pursue sale of ownership
stake in Alcoa Minerals of Jamaica bauxite mine and
alumina refinery

Lightweight metals technology, engineering and
manufacturing leader Alcoa (NYSE:AA) today
announced that profits surged in the second quarter as
the Company’s portfolio transformation continues
accelerating. Alcoa is aggressively transforming its
portfolio by building out its value-add businesses to
capture profitable growth and by creating a lower cost,
very competitive commodity business.

In second quarter 2014, Alcoa reported net income of
$138 million, or $0.12 per share, which includes $78
million in special items largely tied to a previously
announced restructuring aimed at reducing the cost
base of the commodity business.

Excluding the impact of special items, net income was
$216 million, or $0.18 per share, more than double
sequentially and nearly triple year-over-year.

“Our second quarter results prove Alcoa’s
transformation is in high gear,” said Klaus Kleinfeld,
Alcoa Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. “We are
taking the downstream business to new profitability
heights, capturing midstream demand as auto
lightweighting accelerates, while continuing to
relentlessly improve upstream performance. Our
strategy of building a lightweight multi-material
innovation powerhouse and a highly competitive
commodities business is driving compelling and
sustainable shareholder value.”

Second quarter 2014 revenues climbed sequentially to
$5.8 billion and held steady from the same period last
year. The sequential improvement resulted from
stronger volumes in the mid and downstream, improved
metal pricing, and higher energy sales.

All of Alcoa’s business segments were profitable during
the quarter. Engineered Products and Solutions (EPS),
the downstream business, achieved its best ever results,
delivering $204 million in after-tax operating income
(ATOI). The midstream business, Global Rolled
Products (GRP), continued to capture increasing
demand for automotive sheet. The upstream business,
comprising Alumina and Primary Metals, improved
performance for the 11th consecutive quarter. Primary
Metals’ results reflect a more competitive business, the
positive impact of energy sales, and higher regional
premiums due to robust aluminum demand.

Sequentially, second quarter 2014 results compare to a
net loss of $178 million, or $0.16 per share, in first
quarter 2014. Excluding special items, second quarter
2014 results compare to net income of $98 million, or
$0.09 per share, in the sequential period.

Year-over-year, second quarter 2014 results compare to
a net loss of $119 million, or $0.11 per share, in second
quarter 2013. Excluding special items, second quarter

Page118of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.2014 results compare to net income of $76 million, or
$0.07 per share, in the year-ago period.

Special items in second quarter 2014 included the
previously announced restructuring associated with the
closure of the Point Henry smelter in Australia and the
Australian rolling mills. There were also costs associated
with the Firth
Rixson acquisition agreement and the recently
completed U.S. labor contract negotiations.

Continued Growth Across End Markets

Alcoa continues to project 2014 global aerospace
growth of 8 to 9 percent driven by robust demand for
both large commercial aircraft and regional jets. The
Company’s projected 2014 automotive growth of 1 to 4
percent, packaging growth of 2 to 3 percent, and
building and construction growth of 4 to 6 percent,
remain unchanged. In the industrial gas turbine market,
the Company’s projected decline of 8 to 12 percent, on
lower orders for new gas turbines and spare parts, also
remains unchanged.

Alcoa increased its 2014 estimate for the North America
commercial transportation market to a range of 10 to 14
percent, from a previous range of 5 to 9 percent in the
first quarter. The higher estimate is based in part on
rising truck orders and backlogs. Globally, Alcoa
continues to expect a steady commercial transportation
market in 2014 of -1 to 3 percent due to weakness in the
European market.

Additionally, Alcoa reaffirmed its 7 percent global
aluminum demand growth projection for 2014.
For 2014, the Company sees a global aluminum deficit
of 930,000 metric tons, an increase from a deficit of
730,000 metric tons estimated in the first quarter. Alcoa
also sees a tightening of the alumina market with a
surplus declining from 2,257,000 metric tons in the first
quarter to 824,000 metric tons in second quarter 2014.

Value-Add Portfolio Transformation

Alcoa’s strategy to build out its value-add businesses
took a major step forward in the second quarter with the
signing of a definitive agreement to acquire Firth Rixson,
a global leader in aerospace jet engine components.
The $2.85 billion cash and stock acquisition will further
strengthen Alcoa’s robust aerospace portfolio,
positioning the Company to capture additional
aerospace growth with a broader range of multi-material,
value-add jet engine components.

Firth Rixson’s revenues are expected to grow 60 percent
over the next three years, from $1 billion in 2013 to
$1.6 billion, and contribute $350 million EBITDA in
2016. Firth Rixson’s sales are expected to grow 12
percent annually through 2019, a rate more than double
the expanding global aerospace market. Approximately
70 percent of Firth Rixson’s revenue growth is secured
by long-term agreements.

In the second quarter, Alcoa also announced two
organic investments in its Power and Propulsion (APP)
business in the EPS segment totaling $125 million to

Page119of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.meet increasing demand for next-generation jet engine
components. In La Porte, Indiana, Alcoa is investing
$100 million to build a new state-of-the-art
320,000-square-foot facility. It will expand Alcoa’s reach
in structural engine components for military, business
and regional jets to large commercial aircraft, including
narrow-and wide-body airplanes. In Hampton, Virginia,
Alcoa is scaling-up technology at an existing plant to cut
the weight of its highest-volume jet engine blades by 20
percent. The lighter blade will enhance aerodynamic
performance for increased fuel efficiency. Both
expansions are expected to be complete by fourth
quarter 2015 and will contribute towards APP’s expected
$2.2 billion revenues in 2016.

In Alcoa’s GRP segment, the automotive expansion in
Davenport, Iowa, is complete and will continue to ramp
up production in the third quarter to serve growing
demand for aluminum intensive vehicles. Alcoa’s second
automotive expansion in Tennessee is on schedule for
completion in mid 2015. The amount of aluminum body
sheet content in North American vehicles is expected to
quadruple by 2015 and increase tenfold by 2025 from
2012 levels. In addition, the rolling mill at the
Ma’aden-Alcoa joint venture in Saudi Arabia produced
its first production-grade coil on schedule.

Upstream Portfolio Transformation
The Company continues to execute previously
announced portfolio actions to lower the cost base of its
commodity business and take further decisive action to
optimize its portfolio.

In the second quarter, Alcoa completed the curtailment
of 147,000 metric tons of smelting capacity in Brazil at
São Luís (Alumar) and Poços de Caldas. In August,
Alcoa will permanently close the 190,000 metric ton
Point Henry aluminum smelter in Australia.

The Saudi Arabia joint venture is also integral to the
Company’s strategy of increasing the cost
competitiveness of its commodity portfolio. In the second
quarter, the start up of the Saudi Arabia smelter, the
lowest cost aluminum production facility in the world,
was completed.
To further optimize the Alumina business, Alcoa signed
a non-binding letter of intent to pursue a sale of its
ownership stake in Alcoa Minerals of Jamaica, L.L.C
(AMJ), which operates the Jamalco bauxite mining and
alumina refining joint venture. Jamalco is owned jointly
by AMJ (55%) and Clarendon Alumina Production Ltd.
(45%). AMJ is part of the Alcoa World Alumina &
Chemicals (AWAC) group of companies and is owned
60% by Alcoa and 40% by Alumina Ltd. Clarendon
Alumina Production Ltd. is a company wholly owned by
the Government of Jamaica.
The above actions are consistent with the Company’s
goal of lowering its position on the world aluminum
production cost curve to the 38th percentile and the
alumina cost curve to the 21st percentile, by 2016.

Financial Performance

Page120of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Alcoa continues to drive strong performance across all
businesses, delivering $302 million in second quarter
productivity gains across all segments and $556 million
in year-over-year productivity gains in the first half of
2014 against an $850 million annual target. Productivity
gains have been driven by process improvements and
procurement savings across all businesses. Alcoa
managed growth capital expenditures of $206 million
against a $500 million annual target and controlled
sustaining capital expenditures of $261 million against
a $750 million annual plan. Contributions in the Saudi
Arabia joint venture project were on track at $64 million
invested against a $125 million annual plan.
Free cash flow for the quarter was $260 million, with
cash from operations generating $518 million. Alcoa
ended the quarter with cash on hand of $1.2 billion, up
from $665 million in first quarter 2014.
The Company reported an average of 33 days working
capital for the quarter, up 4 days from second quarter
2013. The increase was primarily due to inventory build
to support automotive growth and third quarter 2014
sales expectations, as well as to fulfill stocking
requirements for both the recently-completed labor
negotiations and curtailments. Sequentially, average
days working capital was 3 days higher primarily due to
longer customer terms and inventory build to support the
automotive growth.

Alcoa’s net debt decreased sequentially from $7.1
billion to $6.9 billion in second quarter 2014, the lowest
since 2007. Alcoa’s debt totaled $8.1 billion. The
Company’s debt-to-capital ratio stood at 35.4 percent,
while net debt-to-capital ratio stood at 31.8 percent.

Segment Performance Engineered Products and
Solutions
ATOI was a quarterly record of $204 million, up $15
million, or 8 percent, sequentially and up $11 million,
or 6 percent, year-over-year. Sequentially, higher
volumes across all businesses and favorable
productivity drove the improvement. This segment
reported a record adjusted EBITDA margin of 23.1
percent, compared to 22.2 percent for both first quarter
2014 and the same quarter last year.

Global Rolled Products
ATOI in the second quarter was $79 million compared
to $59 million in first quarter 2014, a 34 percent
improvement, and $79 million in second quarter 2013.
Sequentially, the improvement in ATOI was driven by
higher seasonal demand for can sheet and
strengthening orders for brazing sheet, industrial and
commercial transportation products due to recovering
economies in Europe and the United States, as well as
the absence of a first quarter charge related to the
planned permanent shutdown of the Australia rolling
operations. This segment also continues to capture
automotive demand. These favorable impacts were
partially offset by costs associated with recently
completed U.S. labor contract negotiations.
Alumina

Page121of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.ATOI in the second quarter was $38 million, down $54
million sequentially, and down $26 million
year-over-year. The decline in sequential ATOI was
primarily due to the first quarter benefit from the sale of
Alcoa’s Suriname gold mine interest, unfavorable
foreign exchange rates, lower Alumina Price Index
(API) pricing, and additional costs due to outages and
maintenance. Adjusted EBITDA per metric ton fell $10
from first quarter 2014 to $39 per metric ton in second
quarter 2014.

Primary Metals
ATOI in the second quarter was $97 million, up $112
million sequentially from negative $15 million, and up
$129 million from negative $32 million in second
quarter 2013. Third-party realized price in second
quarter 2014 was $2,291 per metric ton, up 4 percent
sequentially, and up 2 percent year-over-year.
Sequential results were driven by higher London Metal
Exchange (LME) pricing and regional premiums,
increased power sales, and the absence of special
charges recorded in the first quarter. Results were
partially offset by unfavorable foreign exchange rates.
Adjusted EBITDA per metric ton was $337, $187 per
metric ton higher than first quarter 2014.

(
http://www.aluminalimited.com/database-files/view-
file/?id=6562)

BHP Billiton Ltd (ASE: BHP)

Strong operating performance delivered a 9% increase
in Group production with annual records achieved
across 12 operations and four commodities.
Western Australia Iron Ore achieved a fourteenth
consecutive annual production record as volumes
increased to 225 Mt (100% basis), significantly
exceeding initial full-year guidance. We now expect
production of 245 Mt (100% basis) from the Pilbara in
the 2015 financial year.
Metallurgical coal production of 45 Mt exceeded
full-year guidance as Queensland Coal achieved record
production and sales volumes.
Copper production increased to 1.7 Mt as an
improvement in mill throughput and concentrator
utilisation offset grade decline at a number of
operations.

Petroleum production increased by 4% to a record 246
MMboe with an 18% increase in liquids volumes
underpinned by significant growth at Onshore US and
Atlantis.

Six major projects were completed and another two
projects achieved first production, including the Caval
Ridge coal mine which was completed ahead of
schedule and under budget in the June 2014 quarter.

BHP Billiton Chief Executive Officer, Andrew Mackenzie,
said: “Our focus on productivity has resulted in a
significant improvement in operating performance at
each of our major businesses this year, with a nine per
cent1increase in Group production and record output at

Page122of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.12 operations. Western Australia Iron Ore and
Queensland Coal annual production exceeded
guidance, with both rising by more than 20 per cent as
we delivered more tonnes from existing infrastructure
and growth projects ahead of schedule. At Escondida,
an increase in mill throughput and concentrator
utilisation offset copper grade decline, while our
Onshore US business delivered a 73 per cent increase
in petroleum liquids production.

“We expect to maintain strong momentum and remain
on track to generate Group production growth of 16 per
cent1 over the two years to the end of the 2015 financial
year. In Petroleum, we are investing in our
highest-return acreage while a broader improvement in
productivity is expected to underpin stronger iron ore,
copper and metallurgical coal volumes. We will remain
focused on value over volume as we prioritise our
brownfield development options and consider the next
phase of portfolio simplification.”

Strong operating performance in the 2014 financial year
delivered a nine per cent increase in Group production
as records were achieved across 12 operations and
four commodities. Group production growth of 16 per
cent is expected over the two years to the end of the
2015 financial year.
Western Australia Iron Ore (WAIO) significantly
exceeded initial full-year production guidance as the
early commissioning of Jimblebar and our productivity
agenda raised the capacity of our integrated supply
chain. The ramp-up of Jimblebar to 35 Mtpa (100 per
cent basis) is now expected before the end of the 2014
calendar year and will support a further 20 Mt increase
in WAIO production to approximately 245 Mt (100 per
cent basis) in the 2015 financial year. A low-cost option
to expand Jimblebar to 55 Mtpa (100 per cent basis) and
broader debottlenecking of the supply chain are
expected to underpin further growth in capacity towards
270 Mtpa (100 per cent basis).
Metallurgical coal production exceeded full-year
guidance as Queensland Coal achieved record
production and sales volumes. This included first
production from Caval Ridge, the successful ramp-up of
Daunia and record production at Peak Downs, Saraji,
South Walker Creek and Poitrel. Metallurgical coal
production is forecast to increase by four per cent in the
2015 financial year to 47 Mt as the ramp-up of Caval
Ridge is completed.
Escondida copper production increased by two per cent
as an improvement in mill throughput and concentrator
utilisation offset declining ore grades. With further
improvements in productivity anticipated, Escondida is
on track to produce approximately 1.27 Mt of copper in
the 2015 financial year, while Group copper production
is forecast to increase by five per cent to 1.8 Mt.
Energy coal volumes were broadly unchanged in the
2014 financial year as a fifth consecutive production
record at
New South Wales Energy Coal and record volumes at
Cerrejón were offset by lower production at South Africa
Energy Coal and Navajo Coal. Energy coal production

Page123of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.for the 2015 financial year is expected to remain broadly
unchanged at 73 Mt.

Petroleum production of 246 MMboe marginally
exceeded revised full-year guidance as liquids volumes
in our Onshore US business increased by 23 per cent in
the June 2014 quarter. Petroleum production is forecast
to increase by five per cent in the 2015 financial year to
255 MMboe with high-margin liquids volumes expected
to increase by 16 MMboe. We remain confident that
Onshore US will be strongly EBIT positive in the 2015
financial year as the liquids contribution is forecast to
rise to approximately 40 per cent of total shale
production.

Major development projects

At the end of the 2014 financial year, BHP Billiton had
eight low-risk, largely brownfield major projects under
development with a combined budget of US$14.1 billion.

During the 2014 financial year we successfully
completed six projects, namely: Macedon; North West
Shelf North Rankin B Gas Compression; WAIO
Jimblebar Mine Expansion; WAIO Port Blending and
Rail Yard Facilities; Samarco Fourth Pellet Plant; and
Caval Ridge. Caval Ridge was completed in the June
2014 quarter, ahead of

schedule and under budget, and will not be reported in
future Operational Reviews. Another two projects,
Newcastle Third Port Stage 3 and Cerrejón P40,
delivered first coal during the year.
A US$212 million increase in the budget of the
Escondida Oxide Leach Area project to US$933 million
has been approved. The project is now expected to be
completed in the second half of the 2014 calendar year
with no associated impact to production.

Corporate update

BHP Billiton expects Underlying EBIT in the June 2014
half year to include additional charges in a range of
approximately US$0.9 billion to US$1.3 billion related
to: impairments and mine site rehabilitation; and
redundancies and the closure of operations associated
with our productivity agenda. Items include impairments
(related to the Port of Vancouver and small Gulf of
Mexico petroleum assets) and mine site rehabilitation
costs in Petroleum and Potash, and the impairment of
assets at South Africa Energy Coal. Redundancy costs
will be recognised in our Coal, Iron Ore and Aluminium,
Manganese and Nickel Businesses, while additional
costs will be recognised following the closure of
aluminium smelting activities at Bayside. This guidance
will be updated should material information or events
arise as the Company finalises its financial statements.

We continued to simplify our portfolio during the 2014
financial year with the successful completion of
numerous transactions, including Jimblebar and Pinto
Valley. In the last two years alone, the Group has
completed transactions exceeding US$6.7 billion in
Australia, the United States, Canada, South Africa and
the United Kingdom, including petroleum, copper, iron
ore, coal, mineral sands, uranium and diamonds

Page124of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.assets. We continue to actively study the next phase of
simplification, including structural options, but we will
only pursue options that maximise value for BHP Billiton
shareholders.

Marketing update

The average realised prices achieved for our major
commodities are summarised in the table below. Iron
ore shipments, on average, were linked to the index
price for the month of shipment, with price differentials
reflecting product quality. The majority of metallurgical
coal and energy coal exports were linked to the index
price for the month of shipment or sold on the spot
market, with price differentials reflecting product quality.

Total petroleum production – Petroleum production
increased by four per cent in the 2014 financial year to
246 MMboe and included strong performance from
Onshore US, which delivered a 73 per cent increase in
liquids volumes. Petroleum production is forecast to
increase by five per cent in the 2015 financial year to
255 MMboe as continued growth at Onshore US
contributes to a 16 MMboe increase in total liquids
production. Conventional volumes for the 2015 financial
year are forecast to remain broadly unchanged,
consistent with prior guidance.
Crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids – Crude
oil, condensate and natural gas liquids production
increased by 18 per cent in the 2014 financial year to
106 MMboe. Onshore US liquids production increased
by 23 per cent in the June 2014 quarter and we expect
to carry strong momentum into the 2015 financial year
as shale liquids volumes are forecast to increase by
over 17 MMboe in the period. We remain confident that
Onshore US will be strongly EBIT positive in the 2015
financial year as the liquids contribution is forecast to
rise to approximately 40 per cent of total shale
production.

In our conventional business, a near doubling of
production at Atlantis was achieved ahead of prior
guidance as the early completion of two production wells
brought forward volumes into the 2014 financial year.
While production at Pyrenees declined by 12 per cent as
a result of major maintenance, volumes recovered
strongly in the second half ofthe financial year following
the completion of five new production wells.

Natural gas – Natural gas production declined by four
per cent in the 2014 financial year to 839 bcf. The
delivery of first gas from Macedon partially offset lower
demand at Bass Strait and natural field decline at
Haynesville.
Copper – Total copper production increased by two per
cent in the 2014 financial year to 1.7 Mt as planned.
Total copper production is forecast to increase by five
per cent in the 2015 financial year to 1.8 Mt.
Escondida copper production increased by two per cent
in the 2014 financial year to 1.2 Mt as an improvement
in mill throughput and concentrator utilisation offset
declining ore grades. With further improvements in
productivity anticipated, Escondida is on track to
produce approximately 1.27 Mt of copper in the 2015

Page125of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.financial year. A power outage throughout Northern
Chile in July 2014 and a six-day maintenance shutdown
at the Laguna Seca concentrator will impact production
in the September 2014 quarter. Commissioning of
Organic Growth Project 1 is scheduled for the June
2015 quarter.
Pampa Norte copper production of 233 kt for the 2014
financial year was unchanged from the prior period.
Production is forecast to remain at a similar level in the
2015 financial year as higher grades and recoveries at
Spence offset declining grades and recoveries at Cerro
Colorado. A 12-day maintenance shutdown at Cerro
Colorado and tertiary crusher maintenance at Spence is
expected to impact production in the September 2014
quarter.
Record mining rates at Olympic Dam underpinned an
11 per cent increase in copper production in the 2014
financial year to 184 kt. While an annualised production
rate of 219 kt in the June 2014 quarter indicates the
degree of improvement achieved in the existing
underground operation, volumes in the 2015 financial
year are expected to remain broadly unchanged as a
result of the current smelter maintenance program which
is expected to be completed early in the September
2014 quarter. A major smelter maintenance campaign is
scheduled to commence in the June 2015 quarter.

Antamina achieved records for mill throughput and
copper production in the 2014 financial year. Average
copper grades at Antamina in the 2015 financial year
are expected to remain at a similar level to the June
2014 quarter, leading to lower copper production,
consistent with the mine plan.
Lead/silver – Lead and silver production decreased by
12 per cent and 11 per cent, respectively, in the
2014 financial year as lower average ore grades at
Cannington were partially offset by a record mining
rate.

Zinc – Total zinc production decreased by 14 per cent in
the 2014 financial year and reflected lower grades at

Antamina, consistent with the mine plan.
Uranium – The production of uranium oxide
concentrate was broadly unchanged in the 2014
financial year.
Iron ore – Iron ore production increased by 20 per cent
in the 2014 financial year to a record 204 Mt, exceeding
initial full-year guidance by more than eight per cent.
Total iron ore production is forecast to increase by 11
per cent in the 2015 financial year to 225 Mt.
Western Australia Iron Ore production of 225 Mt (100
per cent basis) represents a fourteenth consecutive
annual record and was underpinned by the early
commissioning of Jimblebar and our productivity
agenda, which raised the capacity of our integrated
supply chain. Production from the Wheelarra Joint
Venture, which was previously processed through
Newman, was permanently connected to the Jimblebar
processing hub during the period. The spare capacity

Page126of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.created at Newman is now being utilised by existing
operations. The ramp-up of Jimblebar to 35 Mtpa (100
per cent basis) is now expected before the end of the
2014 calendar year.

In the 2015 financial year WAIO production is expected
to increase by a further 20 Mt to approximately 245 Mt
(100 per cent basis). Yet another year of record
performance will be supported by additional productivity
gains despite the tie-in of shiploaders 1 and 2 during the
period. A low-cost option to expand Jimblebar to 55
Mtpa (100 per cent basis) and broader debottlenecking
of the supply chain are expected to underpin further
growth in capacity towards 270 Mtpa (100 per cent
basis).

Samarco production of 22 Mt (100 per cent basis) was
broadly unchanged in the 2014 financial year. The fourth
pellet plant was commissioned in the March 2014
quarter and the ramp-up to 30.5 Mtpa (100 per cent
basis) is expected before the end of the 2015 financial
year.

Major increase in Mineral Resource at Western Australia
Iron Ore

BHP Billiton also confirms a 13 per cent increase in the
Mineral Resource at WAIO compared to the previous 30
June 2013 estimate (Table 2). The increase reflects the
inclusion of 500 km of infill drilling and revised resource
estimates that have continued to delineate orebodies
primarily with Brockman (67 per cent of the increase)
and Marra Mamba (33 per cent of the increase) ore
types, with changes after consideration of mining
depletion in the 2014 financial year. BHP Billiton
ownership averages 88 per cent but varies between 85
per cent and 100 per cent. Information pertaining to the
orebodies that contribute to the increase in Mineral
Resource is contained in Appendix 1.

WAIO is located within the Pilbara region of Western
Australia. The geology of the region, comprising the
Hamersley and North East Pilbara Provinces, has been
extensively studied and is well documented based on
extensive mapping, exploratory drilling and mining. The
Hamersley Group forms the central part of the Mt Bruce
Supergroup and contains two iron bearing stratigraphic
sequences, with major bedded ores hosted by the
Brockman Iron Formation and Marra Mamba Iron
Formation. The Nimingarra Iron Formation in the North
East Pilbara, hosts the Yarrie-Nimingarra iron ore
deposits. Another important iron bearing sequence is
the Marillana Formation which is a detrital derived
Channel Iron Deposit currently mined at Yandi.
WAIO Mineral Resources contain the ore types: BKM –
Brockman, CID – Channel Iron Deposits, MM – Marra
Mamba and NIM – Nimingarra.

Mineral Resource estimates are largely based upon
three metre samples obtained from 140 millimetre
Reverse Circulation (RC) drill holes and to a lesser
extent 0.3 metre to three metre samples obtained from
HQ3 and PQ3 type Diamond Drill holes and three metre
samples obtained from 140 millimetre open Percussion
holes.

Page127of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RC and Percussion samples are either riffle or static
cone split whereas diamond core is typically sampled as
a whole. Samples are crushed to 90 per cent minus 2.8
millimetres and then pulverised to 95 per cent minus
0.16 millimetres. Pulp (200 grams) is then used for
chemical analysis by X-Ray Fluorescence (XRF) for Fe,
SiO2, Al2O3, P, MnO, CaO, K2O, MgO, S and TiO2 and
Robotic Thermo-Gravimetric Analysis (ROBTGA) for
Loss on Ignition (LOI).

Resource estimation is typically performed by Ordinary
Kriging (OK) interpolation which uses search criteria
consistent with geostatistical models separately
developed for both Fe and associated deleterious
elements such as SiO2, Al2O3 and P according to the
appropriate geological controls. To a lesser extent some
deposits contributing Inferred Resources have been
estimated using Inverse Distance Weighted (IDW)
interpolation or Cross Sectional Area of Influence
techniques reflecting data density.
Metallurgical coal – Metallurgical coal production
increased by 20 per cent in the 2014 financial year to a
record
45 Mt, exceeding full-year guidance. Metallurgical coal
production is forecast to increase by four per cent in the

2015 financial year to 47 Mt as the ramp-up of Caval
Ridge is completed.
Queensland Coal achieved record production and sales
volumes in the 2014 financial year, supported by strong
performance across all operations. This included first
production from Caval Ridge, the successful ramp-up of
Daunia and record production at Peak Downs, Saraji,
South Walker Creek and Poitrel. A sustainable increase
in truck and wash-plant utilisation rates underpinned a
further improvement in productivity across the business.
Illawarra Coal production declined by five per cent in the
2014 financial year to 7.5 Mt. An extended outage at the
Dendrobium mine impacted performance, primarily in
the September 2013 quarter.
As a result of continued weakness in coal prices,
persistent strength of the Australian dollar and the
recognition of redundancy and restructuring charges,
Queensland Coal was marginally EBIT positive during
the second half of the 2014 financial year.
Energy coal – Energy coal production of 73 Mt in the
2014 financial year was broadly unchanged from the
prior period as planned. Another year of robust
performance was underpinned by a fifth consecutive
annual production record at New South Wales Energy
Coal and record volumes at Cerrejón. Extended outages
at both a local utility and the Richards Bay Coal
Terminal led to lower production at South Africa Energy
Coal, while Navajo Coal production declined following
the permanent closure of three of the five power units at
the Four Corners Power Plant.
Energy coal production for the 2015 financial year is
expected to remain broadly unchanged at 73 Mt. A
drought in the La Guajira region of Colombia is expected
to constrain Cerrejón production for the remainder of the

Page128of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.2014 calendar year given the requirement to manage
dust emissions. The port expansion associated with the
Cerrejón P40 project is currently being commissioned,
although operational issues are expected to constrain
capacity at approximately 35 Mtpa (100 per cent basis)
in the medium term.
Alumina – Alumina production increased by six per
cent in the 2014 financial year to a record 5.2 Mt. The

Efficiency and Growth project at Worsley reached
nameplate capacity during the year and annual
production records were achieved at both the Worsley
and Alumar refineries.

Aluminium – Aluminium production in the 2014 financial
year was unchanged at 1.2 Mt. Production records at
both Hillside and Mozal were offset by lower volumes at
Alumar following the phased suspension of 103 kt (BHP
Billiton share) of annualised capacity during the 2014
financial year. The final potline at Bayside was closed in
June 2014, although the cast house will be supplied by
our Hillside smelter as we continue to assess its future.

Manganese ores – Despite achieving record production
in the June 2014 quarter, manganese ore volumes
declined by three per cent in the 2014 financial year as
GEMCO was affected by higher than usual rainfall
during the wet season.

Manganese alloys – Manganese alloy production
increased by six per cent from the 2013 financial year
which was affected by the temporary suspension of
operations at TEMCO.

Nickel – Nickel production declined by seven per cent in
the 2014 financial year to 143 kt as production at Cerro
Matoso was affected by kiln and furnace outages, and
lower nickel grades. Nickel West production declined by
four per cent following the closure of the Perseverance
underground mine in November 2013.

Saleable nickel production at Nickel West is expected to
decline by four per cent in the 2015 financial year to 95
kt. Ferro-nickel production at Cerro Matoso is expected
to decline by three per cent to 43 kt as a result of lower
grades and recoveries.

On 14 May 2014, BHP Billiton announced a review of
the Nickel West business, comprising the Mt Keith, Cliffs
and Leinster mines, its concentrators, the Kalgoorlie
smelter and the Kwinana refinery. The review is
considering all options for the long-term future of Nickel
West, including the potential sale of all or part of the
business.

(
http://www.bhpbilliton.com/home/investors/reports/Docu
ments/2014/140723_BHPBillitonOperationalReviewforth
eYearEnded30June2014.pdf)

Bluescope Steel Ltd (ASX: BSL)

Summary

• FY2013 reported net loss after tax of $84M, a $960M
improvement on FY2012

Page129of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.• $30M underlying net profit after tax, a $267M
improvement on FY2012

• $49M 2H FY2013 market guidance comparable
NPAT1

• Major achievements in delivery of NS BlueScope
Coated Products JV transaction and Coated &
Industrial Products Australia turnaround

• Significant financial improvement after restructure

• Net debt of $148M at 30 June 2013, being less
than0.4x FY2013 underlying EBITDA, and a reduction of
$436M from 30 June 2012 (after adjusting for the benefit
of the timing of year-end cash flows)

• Building Products1 underlying EBIT improved to $80M;
growth of 57% over FY2012 driven by Thailand, Vietnam
and North America improvement

• Global Building Solutions underlying EBIT result of
$34M (excludes one-off impact of prior period provision
adjustment). Strong contribution from North America and
Building Products China, offset by weaker earnings from
Buildings Asia

• CIPA underlying EBITDA of $150M in FY2013, of
which $71M in 2H. Improved spread; lower loss-making
export despatches; cost reduction performance strong;
domestic volume slightly weaker than FY2012

• Building Components & Distribution Australia
underlying EBIT loss of $25M. Although there is more
work to be done, this is a significant improvement on the
$46M EBIT loss in FY2012

• NZ Steel underlying EBIT improved to $40M in 2H
FY2013 ($42M for full year), up from $2M in 1H. Higher
steel and iron ore prices in 2H, and fewer maintenance
outages

• Hot Rolled NA underlying EBIT of $67M, improved
$5M on FY2012. Continuing review of expansion
opportunities

(
http://www.bluescopesteel.com/media/314696/fy2013%
20results%20presentation.pdf)
Fortescue Metals Group (ASE: FMG)

For the period ending 30 June 2014

Successful ramp-up of the Kings Valley project delivered
the targeted 155 million tonne annualised run rate in
the June 2014 quarter and a record 160 million tonnes
annualised shipping rate for the month of June.

Fortescue remains absolutely focused on continuing to
improve shareholder value through identificationof
additional operating efficiencies and disciplined capital
management.
• Record shipments of 38.7 million tonnes (mt)
achieved during the June 2014 quarter

Page130of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.• Total FY14 shipments were 124.2mt, 53 per cent
greater than the prior financial year and within two per
cent of full year guidance of 127mt

• C1 costs for the June 2014 quarter were US$34.03/wet
metric tonne (wmt) bringing full year C1 cost to
US$33.84/wmt, a reduction of 23 per cent compared to
the prior financial year and below guidance

• Delivered cost to customers was US$49/wmt
(US$53/dmt) for the June 2014 quarter inclusive of C1,
shipping, royalties and administration

• CFR prices realised for the June 2014 quarter were
US$82/dry metric tonne (dmt) based on an average 62%
Platts CFR index of US$103/dmt
• Cash on hand was US$2.4 billion at 30 June 2014
reflecting the continued strength of operational
cashflows, reduced capital expenditure and lower
finance costs
• Net debt at 30 June 2014 was US$7.2 billion

• All T155 expansion projects have been completed at a
total cost of US$9.2 billion, US$92 per annual
production tone

Safety

Fortescue has taken decisive actions to reinforce that
safety is the highest priority for everyone on a Fortescue
site. The drive towards world class performance in
safety continued during the June 2014 quarter with the
Safety Excellence project focusing on enhancing safety
leadership. The project is delivering results with
improvements to safety outcomes among contracting
partners and the sharing of incident lessons.
The total recordable injury frequency rate per million
hours worked was 6.0 in the June 2014 quarter, a five
per cent improvement over the previous quarter and 21
per cent lower than the prior comparable period.

Aboriginal Engagement

Fortescue’s vision to create partnerships which deliver
lasting benefits to Aboriginal Communities through the
provision of training, employment and economic
development opportunities continued in FY14 with a
number of significant achievements.

In the June 2014 quarter, contracts and sub-contracts
valued at A$40 million were awarded to Aboriginal
businesses and joint ventures, bringing the total
awarded contracts value to A$497 million in FY14 and
the total value under the Billion Opportunities program
to A$1.58 billion. There was also a significant increase
in the commitment of Fortescue’s contracting partners to
provide second tier contract opportunities, with
sub-contracts worth A$233 million awarded to
Aboriginal businesses and joint ventures in FY14.

In FY14, Fortescue’s Vocational Training and
Employment Centres (VTECs) trained and provided jobs
for 122 people. Aboriginal people represent more than
12 per cent of Fortescue’s direct workforce and over

Page131of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.1,100 Aboriginal people are employed through our
operations.
Mining, Processing and Shipping

The June 2014 quarter delivered a seventh consecutive
shipping record with 38.7mt of ore shipped, a 23 per
cent increase over the previous quarter and a 55 per
cent increase over the prior comparable period.
Shipments included 37.6 million Fortescue equity
tonnes and 1.1 million third party tonnes.

During the June 2014 quarter, Fortescue mined 43.8mt
of ore, 48 per cent higher than the previous quarter.
This increase was largely due to the combination of
increased performance in operations through efficiency
initiatives as well as the continuity of work achieved
through the dry season. Ore mined in the June 2014
quarter was 28 per cent higher than the prior
comparable period. Fortescue drew down ROM iron ore
stocks by six per cent in the June 2014 quarter and aims
to continue reductions in the September 2014 quarter.

Strip ratios at the Chichester Hub averaged 3.2 for the
June 2014 quarter, slightly below the five year mine plan
of 3.5 due to the nature of the mining areas. The strip
ratio across the Solomon Hub was 1.3 during the June
2014 quarter as mining moved closer to a steady state,
following the ramp up of operations at the Kings Valley
project.
The operation of the Kings Valley Ore Processing
Facility (OPF) through the June 2014 quarter lifted
Fortescue’s production capacity beyond 155 million
tonnes per annum (mtpa). Fortescue’s total output from
all processing facilities increased to a record 41.1mt in
the June 2014 quarter, 32 per cent higher than the prior
quarter and work continues allowing transition to our
steady state product mix. During the June 2014 quarter
the Kings Valley OPF has been used to process detrital
ore overlying the main Kings CID ore. Kings CID has
now commenced to form a core product and provide the
planned product mix grades.

MARKETING
The key iron ore pricing references applicable to major
Australian producers are the 62% Platts and MBIO 58%
indices. These indices are essentially determined by
reference to the spot market created by the sales price
achieved for Rio Tinto’s Pilbara Blend, BHP’s MAC and
Newman Fines (62% Platts), and BHP’s Yandi (MBIO
58% + Premium).
Fortescue’s suite of products is sold with reference to
the 62% Platts index with a market price comparable to
other products which have similar value-in-use
properties for steel production.

The graph below sets out price relativities between the
62% Platts index, Fortescue Blend, Fortescue Super
Special Fines, Metal Bulletin 58% Premium index and
the Metal Bulletin 58% index. The graph shows that
while there have been variations in prices across the
year, Fortescue’s major products have consistently
priced in line with similar products relative to the 62%
Platts index.

Page132of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Over the June 2014 quarter iron ore prices have traded
lower and at a wider spread which has historically been
the case in a low price environment. This reflects the
significant increase in new seabourne iron ore supply,
tighter credit conditions in China and relatively high
Chinese port stocks. During the June 2014 quarter iron
ore prices have been volatile resulting in a price
realisation of 80 per cent compared to the average 62%
Platts index. In FY14 Fortescue’s average price
realisation was 86 per cent compared to the average
62% Platts index.

Fortescue expects supply to re-balance in the short term
as port inventories are drawn down, steel mills re-stock
and higher cost iron ore production leaves the market.
As this occurs and Fortescue transitions to a product
suite dominated by the high quality Fortescue Blend and
Kings CID products, realised prices are expected to
range between 85 and 90 per cent of the 62% Platts
price index going forwards.

Balance Sheet

Fortescue’s net debt position at 30 June 2014 was
US$7.2 billion, including finance leases of US$0.3
billion and cash on hand of US$2.4 billion.

Fortescue’s flexible debt profile facilitates additional
repayments and the ability to deliver on the strategy to
further debt reduction and move towards an initial
targeted gearing level of 40 per cent.

As noted in the debt maturity profile below Fortescue’s
earliest debt maturity is in 2017. Further, a total of
US$5.8 billion, or in excess of 60 per cent, of the
company’s long term debt is available for voluntary
repayment in advance of maturity and at Fortescue’s
option.

Capital Expenditure
Capital expenditure in FY14 was US$1.9 billion, slightly
below guidance due to the deferral of approximately
US$100 million into FY15. As a result, FY15
expenditure is now estimated to be US$1.3 billion,
excluding any capital expenditure associated with the
Iron Bridge joint venture, which is fully funded by the
Formosa Plastics Group.

All T155 expansion projects have been completed and
US$9.2 billion was capitalised during FY14. Based on
the current fixed asset base, Fortescue estimates its
depreciation and amortisation expenditure to be
US$8.50/wmt shipped.

Ship Construction

Fortescue has entered into arrangements for the
construction of four highly efficient very large ore
carriers (VLOCs) for a total investment value of US$275
million. Construction is expected to commence in the
second half of 2014 and delivery is scheduled for
November 2016 through to May 2017 with the majority
of payments due on delivery.

In addition, advanced negotiations are underway to
secure four additional VLOCs with another major
Chinese ship builder. These ships are expected to be

Page133of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.delivered in late 2017 and early 2018 with the majority of
payments also due on delivery.

Fortescue’s shipping strategy is to lock in construction of
these VLOCs which are being designed to complement
the port infrastructure to improve load rates, efficiencies
and reduce operating costs. Flexibility has been built
into the ownership structure of these VLOCs which will
allow Fortescue to explore alternative financing
structures at a later date. The investment will initially be
funded by existing operating cash flows and due to the
timing of cash payments, is not expected to impact
Fortescue’s debt repayment strategy.

Fortescue expects the operating cost of these vessels to
be well below the current forward market rates for large
capesize vessels. This, together with expected
through-put benefits and operational savings at the port,
support the investment in these vessels.

(
http://www.fmgl.com.au/UserDir/AsxAnnouncement/Fort
escue%20June14%20QReport782.pdf)

For the period ending 30 June 2014

Iluka Resources Ltd (ASX: ILU)

Iluka Half Year Results Six Months To 30 June 2014

Summary of Financial Results
$ million 1st Half 2014 1st Half 2013 % change Mineral
Sands Revenue 343.2 381.7 (10.1) Mineral Sands
EBITDA 107.9 136.6 (21.0) Mineral Sands EBITDA/
revenue % 31.4 35.8 (12.3) Group EBITDA 125.6 160.2
(21.6) Group EBIT 31.5 61.2 (48.5) Reported Earnings
(NPAT) 11.7 34.3 (65.9) Earnings per share - cents 2.8
8.2 (65.9) Operating Cash Flow 101.9 92.4 10.3 Free
Cash Flow1 63.9 (44.5) 243.6 FCF/share – cents 15.3
(10.6) 244.3 Dividend cps 6.0 5.0 20.0 Net Debt (155.2)
(197.0) 21.2 Gearing (net debt/net debt + equity)% 9.2
11.2 (17.9) Return on Capital % (annualised)2 3.1 5.9
(47.5) Return on Equity % (annualised)3 1.5 4.5 (66.7)
Average AUD/USD 91.4 101.5 (10.0)

Key Features of Results
 Iluka reported a net profit after tax of $11.7 million
for the half year ended 30 June 2014, compared with
$34.3 million for the previous corresponding period.

 Compared with the previous corresponding period,
the reduced earnings reflect, in the main, lower received
prices for key products, as well as a lower contribution
from the Mining Area C iron ore royalty.
 Free cash flow of $63.9 million was generated in the
first half. This is $108.4 million higher than the previous
corresponding period (2013: -$44.5 million), reflecting a
$107.1 million reduction in tax payments. In 2013, tax
payments of $118.4 million were paid in respect of
2012 earnings.

 Mineral Sands revenue for the first half of 2014 was
$343.2 million compared with $381.7 million in the
previous corresponding period.

Page134of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved. Combined zircon, rutile and synthetic rutile (Z/R/SR)
sales volumes in the first half of 2014 were 3.5 per cent
lower at 277.1 thousand tonnes compared to 287.2
thousand tonnes in 2013.

 Key product prices received were 13.8 per cent lower
period-on-period with first half revenue per tonne of
Z/R/SR of $1,015 per tonne compared with $1,178 per
tonne in the first half of 2013, reflecting materially lower
high grade titanium dioxide prices received period on
period.
 Cash costs of production of $200.7 million were in
line with the previous corresponding period (2013:
$201.9 million). Cash costs of production include $19.8
million of costs in relation to ilmenite concentrate and
by-product costs (2013: $11.9 million). Iluka’s
year-to-date cash costs of production are trending in line
with guidance of ~$430 million for the full year, of which
~$365 million relates to zircon and rutile production
costs and ~$65 million relates to by-product costs (refer
ASX Release, Key Physical & Financial Parameters, 21
February 2014).

 On a unit basis, cash costs of production were $796
per tonne of Z/R/SR, a 6.1 per cent decrease compared
with the previous corresponding period, reflecting 5.9
per cent higher production of Z/R/SR. Excluding the
costs for ilmenite concentrate and by-products, the unit
cash cost of production was $718 per tonne of Z/R/SR,
compared with $798 per tonne in the previous
corresponding period.

 The reduction in underlying unit costs reflects the
cost savings realised in 2014 from the operational
adjustments that were undertaken in the previous
corresponding period, including reductions in workforce
and idling some assets.

 Mineral sands EBITDA for the first half of 2014 was
$107.9 million, a 21.0 per cent decrease compared with
the previous corresponding period. Mineral sands EBIT
decreased by 63.5 per cent to $13.8 million (2013:
$37.8 million).
 Mining Area C iron ore royalty earnings (MAC)
decreased by 16.3 per cent to $38.0 million (2013:
$45.4 million), including capacity payments of $1
million (2013: $4.0 million). This mainly reflects lower
received iron ore prices period-on-period.
 Group EBIT was $31.5 million, a decrease of 48.5
per cent compared to $61.2 million in the previous
corresponding period.

 Inventory of finished product decreased by $25.8
million to $376.2 million as sales of Z/R/SR during the
period exceeded production by 25.0 thousand tonnes
combined with a $3.5 million reduction in ilmenite
inventory. Work in progress inventory increased by
$47.4 million as heavy mineral concentrate (HMC)
production of 676.3 thousand tonnes exceeded HMC
processed of 480.2 thousand tonnes, consistent with the
strategy of maintaining cost efficient mining operations
at Jacinth-Ambrosia and Woornack, Rownack, Pirro
(WRP) while restricting production of finished product.

Page135of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved. Capital expenditure of $42.2 million was incurred in
the half year, of which $18.6 million was for an 18.3 per
cent equity interest in Metalysis Limited. Other
expenditure related to various major project evaluation
work. Iluka’s year-to-date capital expenditure compares
to full year guidance of ~$110 million.
Net debt at 30 June 2014 was $155.2 million, with a
gearing ratio (net debt/net debt + equity) of 9.2 per cent.
This compares with net debt at 31 December 2013 of
$206.6 million and a gearing ratio of 11.8 per cent.
During the period, Iluka has extended the maturity of
$625.0 million of the $800.0 million credit facilities
under the Multi Option Facility Agreement (MOFA) from
April 2017 to April 2019 and also increased the size of
the facilities by $50.0 million to $850.0 million through
the addition of a new bilateral facility to April 2019. As a
result, Iluka has facilities of $175.0 million maturing in
April 2017 and $675.0 million maturing in April 2019.

 Undrawn facilities at 30 June 2014 were $676.0
million and cash at bank was $34.0 million. Net debt at
31 July 2014 was $139.1 million

Dividend

Directors have determined an interim dividend of 6.0
cents per share, fully franked. The dividend is payable
on 3 October 2014 for shareholders on the register as at
5 September 2014. This dividend compares with a 2013
interim dividend of 5.0 cents (fully franked).

Market Conditions

Zircon
As commented on previously by the company, zircon
market conditions vary across countries and end
segments. North American and China demand has
been relatively robust, with the major part of Iluka’s
year-to-date sales of 146 thousand tonnes being made
in these two markets. China sentiment in the ceramics
sector remained positive, while demand in the chemicals
sector improved. North American zircon demand
continues to be supported by industrial and
manufacturing applications, where the trends and
underlying data continue to be favourable.

Demand in Europe has been very subdued, although
some emerging signs of recovery became apparent
during the latter part of the June quarter, based on
demand from the export markets, such as the Middle
East and Brazil, supplied by European ceramics
producers. Sales to other markets, including South East
Asia, Japan and India continued to be subdued.

While sales year-to-date, including July sales, are
trending in line with Iluka’s expectations, first half sales
in 2014 were lower than the previous corresponding
period. As Iluka advised at the time of its May 2014
Annual General Meeting, in the first half of 2013 broad
based zircon price increases were communicated to
customers which prompted some increased ordering of
zircon in that period. Iluka expects second half 2014
zircon sales volumes to be greater than the second half
of 2013 (2H 2013: 160 thousand tonnes; full year 2013:
370 thousand tonnes).

Page136of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.There has been no material change in the previously
advised weighted average zircon price received by the
company from that advised as achieved in the
December quarter 2013 of US$1,080/tonne FOB.

Titanium Dioxide

A recovery in high grade feedstock requirements,
particularly in the chloride pigment sector, is apparent as
downstream inventories and pigment plant utilisation
rates appear to be normalising, based on generally
healthy demand trends in North American and European
pigment and paint markets.
Iluka’s rutile sales reflect in part the company’s
continued margin optimization approach under current
market conditions, as well as a view on longer term
realised value considerations pertaining to the timing of
sales through the current cyclical recovery. This is
influenced by an expectation that global rutile supply will
diminish in 2015 coinciding with Iluka completing mining
at the Woornack, Rownack, Pirro mine in the Murray
Basin, Victoria.

Under this situation of potentially constrained supply of
rutile, the company will be seeking to support
customers through allocated sales of finished goods
inventory and via processing of heavy mineral
concentrate built in the Murray Basin over the balance of
2014, resulting in the rutile sales profile in 2014 being
first half weighted.

As noted previously, Iluka has observed a stabilisation in
received weighted average rutile prices.

Iluka advised in its February 2014 guidance that it
expects that total zircon/rutile/synthetic rutile sales may
exceed production (~550 thousand tonnes) and also be
above 2013 sales levels (584 thousand tonnes).

Projects

Iluka recommenced supply of synthetic rutile to some
customers in the first half and expects a gradual
recovery of demand for this product. Given product is
being drawn from inventory in the absence of any
synthetic rutile production in 2014, subject to suitable
commercial arrangements, a basis for reactivation of a
synthetic rutile kiln may be emerging.

Consistent with Iluka’s overall approach to shareholder
returns through the cycle, the company will determine
the appropriateness of the timing for all its current
projects – in Australia and in the United States of
America – based on prevailing and forecast market
demand conditions, timely and satisfactory completion of
feasibility studies and resultant project economics.

Forward Looking Statements

This announcement contains certain statements which
constitute “forward-looking statements”. These
statements include, without limitation, estimates of future
production and production potential; estimates of future
capital expenditure and cash costs; estimates of future
product supply, demand and consumption; statements
regarding future product prices; and statements

Page137of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.regarding the expectation of future Mineral Resources
and Ore Reserves.

Where Iluka expresses or implies an expectation or
belief as to future events or results, such expectation or
belief is expressed in good faith and on a reasonable
basis. No representation or warranty, express or implied,
is made by Iluka that the matters stated in this
announcement will in fact be achieved or prove to be
correct.

Forward-looking statements are only predictions and are
subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, which
could cause actual results to differ materially from future
results expressed, projected or implied by such
forward-looking statements. Such risks and factors
include, but are not limited to:

• changes in exchange rate assumptions;

• changes in product pricing assumptions;

• major changes in mine plans and/or resources;

• changes in equipment life or capability;

• emergence of previously underestimated technical
challenges; and

• environmental or social factors which may affect a
licence to operate.

Except for statutory liability which cannot be excluded,
Iluka, its officers, employees and advisers expressly
disclaim any responsibility for the accuracy or
completeness of the material contained in this
announcement and exclude all liability whatsoever
(including in negligence) for any loss or damage which
may be suffered by any person as a consequence of
any information in this announcement or any error or
omission there from.

Iluka does not undertake any obligation to release
publicly any revisions to any forward-looking statement
to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this
presentation, or to reflect the occurrence of
unanticipated events, except as may be required under
applicable securities laws.

(
http://www.iluka.com/docs/default-source/asx-
releases/asx-release-iluka-half-year-results-to-30-june-
2014-(22-august-2014).pdf?sfvrsn=4)
Newcrest Mining Ltd (ASE: NCM)

Full Year Financial Results
Today Newcrest Mining Limited released its Annual
Financial Report for the twelve months ended 30 June
2014. This market release is a summary document and
readers are directed to the full text of the release. This
market release contains non-IFRS financial information
that is not subject to external audit. For definitions,
reconciliations and rationale of use of the non-IFRS
information refer to the notes on pages 5 to 7. See also
the disclaimer in note 7 on page 8 regarding forward
looking statements.

Page138of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Key points
 Statutory loss1 of A$2,221 million and Underlying
profit2 of A$432 million

 Significant items representing a net loss after tax of
A$2,653 million, due primarily to A$2,353 million of
asset impairments at Lihir, Telfer, Bonikro and Hidden
Valley
 EBITDA2 of A$1,514 million and EBIT2 of A$821
million

 Gold production of 2,396,023 ounces and gold sales
of 2,405,163 ounces was 14% and 17% higher than the
prior year
 Free cash flow2 was an inflow of A$133 million
compared with a net outflow of A$1,417 in the prior year,
with all operations free cash flow positive in the current
year except Hidden Valley

 Cash flow from operating activities was an inflow of
A$1,037 million

 All-In Sustaining Cost2 of A$976 per ounce (US$897
per ounce at an A$:US$ exchange rate of $0.9187) was
24% (32%) lower than the prior year

 Gearing3 of 33.8% at 30 June 2014
 A$1,808 million4 in cash and undrawn, committed
bank facilities at 30 June 2014

 No dividend for the twelve months ended 30 June
2014

Newcrest Chief Executive Officer, Sandeep Biswas said:
“The Company’s improved operating performance in
FY14 shows progress in productivity improvements and
cost reductions. These initial improvements enabled the
company to maintain its underlying profit2 and profit
margins notwithstanding a lower gold price, and deliver
free cash flow2 of $133 million for the year.”
“Asset value impairments of $2.4 billion after tax were
the major drivers of a statutory loss for the year of $2.2
billion. The most significant component of the write
downs related to Lihir,” he said.

“While we have realised some initial operating
improvements, I am not satisfied with either the current
operating performance or the cash generation of the
business.”
“Looking ahead, the Company is firmly focused on
realising the potential of its assets. A Company-wide
improvement program has been initiated, which includes
a major review at Lihir. We expect Group production
this year to be similar to that in financial year 2014 as
we ramp up Cadia East and make improvements at Lihir
which will lay the foundations for future production
growth,” Mr Biswas said.

Full year results

Newcrest’s operating and financial performance for the
twelve months ended 30 June 2014 reflects the

Page139of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Company’s focus on improving productivity, reducing
costs and capital expenditure and maximising free cash
flow2 while maintaining growth options.
Increased gold and copper production and free cash
flow2 generation in the 2014 financial year follows major
expansion investments at Cadia Valley and Lihir,
improved operating performance across all operations,
and a reduction in All-In Sustaining Cost2 expenditure.
Newcrest’s 2014 financial year gold production of 2.4
million ounces exceeded guidance of 2.0 to 2.3 million
ounces. Full year copper production of 86 thousand
tonnes also exceeded guidance of 75 to 85 thousand
tonnes. Total capital expenditure in the 2014 financial
year of A$843 million, All-In Sustaining Cost2
expenditure of A$2.33 billion and exploration
expenditure of A$62 million were also below their
guidance of A$895 to A$1,025 million, A$2.45 to
A$2.73 billion and A$80 to A$90 million, respectively.
Statutory loss1 for the current year was A$2,221 million
(compared with a prior year statutory loss of A$5,783
million), including significant items after tax totalling
A$2,653 million. The significant items comprise asset
impairments of A$2,353 million, an additional income
tax expense for the period of A$120 million as a result
of the voluntary amendment of research and
development claims6 in prior periods, restructure costs
of A$34 million and A$146 million in write downs of
inventory, property, plant and equipment at Lihir and
Cadia Valley.

The asset impairments were primarily a result of
Newcrest’s review of physical, cost, capital and
economic assumptions applied in the valuation of
Newcrest’s assets as at 30 June 2014. The outcome of
this review, and total asset impairments of A$2,353
million, primarily reflects applying updated operating
and capital cost assumptions at Lihir, Bonikro and
Hidden Valley, and the impact of applying updated
foreign exchange assumptions at Telfer.

Underlying profit2 for the twelve months ended 30 June
2014 was A$432 million (prior year A$446 million) and
primarily reflects the impact of a 9% lower average
realised gold price partially offset by a 17% increase in
gold sales volumes.
EBITDA2 of A$1,514 million and EBIT2 of A$821
million for the current year represent EBITDA
margins2and EBIT margins2 of 37.5% and 20.3%
respectively.

Free cash flow2, being cash flow from operating
activities less cash flow from investing activities of the
Company, for the twelve months ended 30 June 2014
was an inflow of A$133 million, A$1,550 million higher
than the prior year outflow (of A$1,417 million). All
operations were free cash flow positive in the current
year except Hidden Valley.

Cash flow from operating activities for the twelve months
ended 30 June 2014 was A$1,037 million, A$110
million lower than the prior year (of A$1,147 million),
reflecting higher revenue compared to the prior year as
a result of increased sales volumes offset by the
continued effect of a lower average realised gold price

Page140of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.for the current year and the unwinding of approximately
A$200 million of favourable working capital balances as
at 30 June 2013. Cash flow from operating activities in
the current year was also adversely impacted by a A$64
million increase in interest payments associated with
higher average debt levels during the current year, a
A$70 million cash tax payment associated with the
Company’s voluntary amendment of its past Australian
research and development claims, and A$65 million of
restructuring expenditure associated with office closure
and redundancy costs.
Consistent with the Company’s stated aim of focusing
on free cash flow2 generation, a number of initiatives
were implemented during the current year. These
initiatives included reducing mining activity and
increased stockpile processing at Lihir, the cessation of
processing low-grade stockpiles at Cadia Valley and
reduced open pit activity at Telfer. These initiatives,
combined with the completion of major production
stripping programs at Telfer and Bonikro, resulted in a
reduction in open pit material movements across the
Company. Cost reduction activity has also resulted in
the transition to new contracts with reduced unit rates
across consumables and labour services, reduction in
workforce numbers through restructuring, and improved
consumption rates for power, reagents and
consumables.

Cash flow from investing activities for the twelve months
ended 30 June 2014 was an outflow of A$904 million,
A$1,660 million lower than the prior year (an outflow of
A$2,564 million). This was primarily the result of the
completion of the Lihir expansion project and the
commencement of commercial production at Cadia
East Panel Cave 1 in the prior year, lower sustaining
capital in the current year, and a lower level of
production stripping activity (primarily at Telfer and
Bonikro). Exploration expenditure of A$62 million was
A$90 million lower than the prior year.
Newcrest’s All-In Sustaining Cost2 per ounce sold for
the twelve months ended 30 June 2014 was A$976 per
ounce (US$897 per ounce), A$307 per ounce lower than
the prior year result of A$1,283 per ounce (US$1,318
per ounce). This improvement is primarily the result of
the higher sales volumes, production efficiencies and
reductions in sustaining capital expenditure and
production stripping activity.

Capital structure

As at 30 June 2014, Newcrest’s gearing level was
33.8%. Under current market and operating conditions,
the Board remains comfortable with gearing being at
this level in the short to medium term given the near
term cash flow growth outlook of the Group.

As at 30 June 2014 Newcrest had an equivalent of
A$1,808 million in cash and undrawn, committed bank
facilities. As announced on 28 March 2014, Newcrest
extended the tenor of many of its existing bilateral bank
loan facilities to provide a smoother and longer average
maturity profile of its debt facilities. Consistent with the
Company’s dividend policy - with dividend levels set
with regard to profitability, balance sheet strength, and
reinvestment options in the business - the Newcrest

Page141of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Board has determined there will be no dividend for the
2014 financial year having regard to the level of
profitability and free cash flow2 in the current year, the
level of gearing at 30 June 2014, and the planned
application of operating cash flow to Cadia East Panel
Cave 2 in the 2015 financial year.

Outlook

All sites achieved production and cost guidance for the
current year, with some sites performing significantly
better. Looking ahead, Newcrest is firmly focused on
realising the full potential of each of the Company’s
assets, with a focus on the following:

 operational discipline (including safety);

 cash; and

 profitable growth
The Company expects to be free cash flow2 positive7,8
in the 2015 financial year at an average realised gold
price of US$1,250 per ounce, subject to market and
operating conditions, with the following guidance:
 Group gold production is expected to be in the range
of 2.2 to 2.4 million ounces
 Group copper production is expected to be in the
range of 75,000 to 85,000 tonnes
 Group silver production is expected to be in the
range of 2.2 to 2.5 million ounces
 Group All-In Sustaining Cost2 expenditure is
expected to be in the range of A$2,300 to A$2,600
million8

 Total capital expenditure (inclusive of project and
development capital, production stripping and sustaining
capital) is expected to be in the range of A$660 to
A$740 million, including approximately A$240 to A$280
million relating to the development of Cadia East Panel
Cave 2
 Total exploration expenditure (inclusive of on-site
exploration) is expected to be in the range of A$60 to
A$70 million
Depreciation and amortisation of site assets (including
production stripping) is expected to be in the range of
A$600 to A$670 million, including the amortisation of
capitalised production stripping.

(
http://www.newcrest.com.au/media/financial_reports/201
4/FINAL_FY14_Financial_Results_Release_180814.pdf)

Regis Resources Ltd (ASX: RRL)

HIGHLIGHTS
GOLD PRODUCTION
• Total gold production for the quarter of 65,747 ounces
at a pre-royalty cash cost of $1,010 per ounce.

Page142of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.• Production and costs were significantly compromised
by restricted operations resulting from impacts and
remediation of flooded Garden Well and Rosemont pits.
• Total gold production for the year of 270,759 ounces.
MOOLART WELL OPERATIONS
• Gold production of 26,469 ounces for the quarter (Mar
14 qtr: 26,434 oz).

• Cash cost of production A$564 per ounce prior to
royalties (Mar 14 qtr: A$568/oz).
• Gold production for the year of 104,880 ounces at a
cash cost of $576 per ounce prior to royalties.
GARDEN WELL OPERATIONS
• Gold production of 28,497 ounces for the quarter (Mar
14 qtr: 25,703 oz).

• Cash cost of production A$1,299 per ounce prior to
royalties.
• Operations impacted by restricted operations post
flooding of the open pit in February 2014.
• Gold production for 2014 of 136,184 ounces at a cash
cost of $999/ounce (pre royalties).
• Flood pumping and remediation mining works reach
practical completion by end of quarter.

• Construction of plant expansion (Rosemont Stage 2)
completed on time and under budget. Commissioning
and optimisation of the expanded plant underway.
ROSEMONT GOLD PROJECT
• Gold production of 10,781 ounces for the quarter (Mar
14 qtr: 10,736 oz).

• Cash cost of production A$1,342 per ounce prior to
royalties.
• Operations severely impacted by restricted
operations post flooding of the open pit in February
2014.

• Improvement in mill throughput and grade noted since
the end of the quarter. CORPORATE
• Gold sales of 59,648 ounces at a delivered price of
A$1,411 per ounce (Mar 14: 66,249 oz at A$1,447/oz).
• Cash flow from operations for the quarter was $21.1
million (Mar 14: $36.7m).
• Cash and gold bullion holding at 30 June 2014 was
$14.2 million (Mar 14: $30.5m).
• Unaudited profit of $79 million for year ended 30 June
2014 before tax and expected impairment charge of
between $230 – 280 million

• Extension of financing facility with Macquarie Bank
Limited to $70 million ($40 million drawn) in a long

Page143of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.term structure with repayments scheduled June 2015 to
2018.
• Regis joins the Gold Royalties Response Group in
light of the possibility of an increase in gold royalties by
the WA state government.

Production
Regis completed another strong year of operations at
the Moolart Well Gold Mine producing 104,880 ounces
of gold at a pre-royalty cash cost of production of A$576
per ounce. Gold production for the June 2014 quarter
was 26,469 ounces at a pre-royalty cash cost of A$564
per ounce.
During the quarter 322,000 bcm of ore and 1,182,000
bcm of waste were mined from the Moolart Well open
pits for a total mining of 1.50 million bcm. Of the total
material mined, 287,000 bcm was mined from laterite
pits and 1,217,000 bcm was mined from the Stirling
oxide deposit.

A total of 38 RC holes were drilled at the Wellington
oxide deposit within the Moolart Well Gold Mine to infill
drill the Inferred Oxide Resource. This drilling is part of
Regis’s ongoing mining inventory replacement strategy
and will be incorporated in mining studies for Wellington
in due course.

CORPORATE
Gold Sales & Hedging
The Company had a hedging position at the end of the
quarter of 260,475 ounces, being 192,751ounces of flat
forward contracts with a delivery price of A$1,436 per
ounce and 67,724 ounces of spot deferred contracts
with a price of A$1,414 per ounce.
During the June 2014 quarter, Regis sold 59,648
ounces of gold at an average price of A$1,411 per
ounce (Mar 14 qtr: 66,249 ounces at A$1,447 per
ounce).

Cash Position
As at 30 June 2014 Regis had $14.2 million in cash and
bullion holdings (Mar 2014: $30.5m). Operating cash
flow from the Duketon Gold Project was $21.1 million
for the June 2014 quarter (Mar2014: $36.7 million). A
copy of the Company’s Mining Exploration Entity
Quarterly (Appendix 5B) report in accordance with
Listing Rule 5.3 is attached.

Unaudited Profit for Year Ended 30 June 2014
The Company has recorded an unaudited profit before
tax of $79 million for year ended 30 June 2014 (2013
audited: $201 million). This unaudited profit is before
the expected impairment charge of between $230 – 280
million referred to in announcement to ASX on 30 July
2014.

Corporate Debt Facility

In response to the flooding event at the Duketon Project
in February 2014 the Company extended its corporate

Page144of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.loan facility with Macquarie Bank Limited from a limit of
$20 million to $70 million. During the June 2014
quarter the Company drew down $25 million on the
facility, taking the total drawn amount at 30 June 2014 to
$40 million.

(file:///C:/Users/user/Downloads/rrl%20jun%2014%20qu
arterly%20report%20(1).pdf)

Rio Tinto Ltd (ASE: RIO)

Rio Tinto chief executive Sam Walsh said “Rio Tinto has
started the year with a series of performance records as
we continue to drive productivity gains across our
operations. Our Pilbara iron ore business has again
set new benchmarks for production, shipments and rail
volumes for the first quarter and we are well on track to
reach nameplate capacity of 290Mt/a by the end of the
first half of 2014. Our mined copper production
benefited from higher ore grades at Kennecott Utah
Copper and production ramp up at Oyu Tolgoi and we
also had a record first quarter for bauxite, primarily
driven by higher production at Weipa.”
• Record first quarter iron ore production, shipments
and rail volumes. Shipments from the Pilbara exceeded
production in the quarter, despite the impact of tropical
cyclone Christine which closed our ports for three days
at the end of 2013 and affected the progressive recovery
of rail and ports into January. The full ramp up is well on
track to achieve nameplate capacity of 290 Mt/a by the
end of the first half of 2014.
• Mined copper benefited from higher grades at
Kennecott Utah Copper and production at Oyu Tolgoi.
This more than offset the elimination of production from
copper assets divested in 2013.

• Record first quarter bauxite production and shipments
were driven by a ramp up of production at the Weipa
mine in Australia to feed the newly expanded Yarwun
alumina refinery.
• Production of coal improved in the first quarter of 2014
compared to the same period in 2013 due to the
productivity improvement programme.

• Exploration and evaluation expenditure was $155
million in the first quarter of 2014, sustaining the
savings achieved in 2013 whilst progressing the highest
priority future growth projects.

• On 13 March 2014, Rio Tinto launched the latest
phase of its industry-leading Mine of the Future™
technology and innovation programme. The Processing
Excellence Centre (PEC) is a state-of-the-art facility that
harnesses ‘big data’ in real time at seven Rio
Tintocopper and coal operations across the globe to
maximise productivity and improve performance.
Global iron ore production of 66.4 million tonnes (Rio
Tinto share 52.3 million tonnes) and shipments of 66.7
million tonnes set new first quarter records. Rio Tinto’s
share of production was eight per cent higher than in the
same period of 2013.
Pilbara operations

Page145of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.First quarter production of 63.4 million tonnes (Rio Tinto
share 50.6 million tonnes) was ten per cent higher than
the same period in 2013 and set a new first quarter
record, driven by productivity improvements and the
continued ramp up towards 290Mt/a.

Production in the first quarter was below fourth quarter
levels due to disruption caused by seasonal weather
patterns. Severe tropical cyclone Christine closed Rio
Tinto’s Pilbara ports and coastal rail operations in late
December. Heavy rainfall associated with this cyclone
and other adverse weather conditions in January and
February impacted across mine, rail and port
operations.

Following early completion of infrastructure works
associated with the 290 Mt/a project last year, the ramp
up to nameplate capacity of 290 Mt/a continued in the
first quarter of 2014. The newly commissioned system
achieved daily equivalent run-rates at or above
nameplate capacity on certain days in the first quarter,
although performance of the integrated system remains
variable. The commissioning remains on schedule to be
complete by the end of the first half of 2014.

Pilbara marketing
First quarter sales of 64.2 million tonnes (100 per cent
basis) were 17 per cent higher than the same period of
2013, setting a new first quarter record. Sales in the first
quarter continued to exceed production due to the
drawdown of iron ore inventories built at Pilbara mine
sites in previous years to facilitate the rapid ramp up of
shipments to 290Mt/a.

Pilbara expansion

Expansion of the port, rail and power infrastructure
capacity to 360 Mt/a remains on track for completion by
the end of the first half of 2015.

In November 2013, Rio Tinto set out its breakthrough
pathway to optimise the growth of mine capacity towards
360 Mt/a at a target all-in capital intensity of between
$120-130 per tonne (100 per cent basis), significantly
lower than originally planned. A series of low-cost
brownfield expansions will bring on additional tonnes to
feed the expanded infrastructure. From a base run rate
of 290 Mt/a by the end of the first half of 2014, mine
production capacity is planned to increase by more than
60 million tonnes a year between 2014 and 2017. The
majority of the low-cost growth will be delivered in the
next two years, with mine production of more than 330
million tonnes (100 per cent basis) expected from the
Pilbara in 2015.
Iron Ore Company of Canada (IOC)

First quarter saleable production was 12 per cent lower
than the same period of 2013 due to the exceptionally
cold weather associated with a polar vortex experienced
in North America.

Pellet sales were 14 per cent higher than in the first
quarter of 2013. Concentrate sales were 33 per cent
lower than the first quarter of 2013 as a result of the
unusually cold weather.

Page146of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.2014 production guidance

2014 production guidance remains unchanged. Rio
Tinto expects to produce approximately 295 million
tonnes (100 per cent basis) from its global operations in
Australia and Canada, subject to weather constraints.
The full ramp up in the Pilbara to nameplate capacity of
290 Mt/a is expected to be delivered by the end of the
first half of 2014. The drawdown of iron ore inventories
at the Pilbara mines will continue to allow shipments to
ramp up ahead of production, with around five million
tonnes of inventory drawdown expected during the year.

Corporate

On 13 January 2014, Rio Tinto announced that it had
maintained its holding in Turquoise Hill Resources at
approximately 50.8 per cent following the successful
completion of the approximately $2.4 billion rights
offering which was fully subscribed. The proceeds of the
rights issue were used to repay loans outstanding to Rio
Tinto, and resulted in a $1.2 billion reduction in Rio
Tinto’s consolidated net debt.

On 12 February 2014, Rio Tinto announced that it had
granted an option to LNG Canada to acquire or lease a
wharf and associated land at its port facility at Kitimat in
British Columbia, Canada. The agreement provides LNG
Canada with a staged series of options payable against
project milestones. The financial arrangements are
commercially confidential.

On 7 April 2014, Rio Tinto announced that it would gift
its 19.1 per cent shareholding in Northern Dynasty
Minerals Ltd (Northern Dynasty), owner of the Pebble
Project, to two local Alaskan charitable foundations. The
decision follows the strategic review of Rio Tinto's
interest in Northern Dynasty announced last year, which
concluded that the Pebble Project does not fit with Rio
Tinto's strategy.

(
http://www.riotinto.com/documents/140415_Rio_Tinto_d
elivers_strong_first_quarter_production.pdf)

Sims Metal Management Ltd (ASE: SGM)

Sims Metal Management Announces Fiscal 2014 Full
Year Results
Results at a Glance STATUTORY (A$m) FY14 FY13
Change % Sales revenue 7,129.0 7,193.0 (0.9)
EBITDA1 124.8 (42.5) NMF2 EBIT (27.6) (470.4) NMF2
NPAT (88.9) (467.3) NMF2 EPS (cents) - diluted (43.5)
(228.6) NMF2 UNDERLYING (A$m) FY14 FY13
Change % Sales revenue 7,129.0 7,193.0 (0.9)
EBITDA1 242.4 190.4 27.3 EBIT 118.5 66.9 77.1 NPAT
68.8 15.9 332.7 EPS (cents) - diluted 33.6 7.7 336.4

Key Points

Underlying earnings before interest and tax (EBIT) of
$119 million, up by 77%, driven by higher underlying
EBIT margins which increased from 0.9% to 1.7% over
the previous year

Page147of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Cash flow from operating activities was $210 million,
with a further $38 million received through the sale of
non-core businesses
Net cash position of $42 million as at 30 June 2014,
compared to net debt of $154 million as at 30 June
2013

Final fully franked dividend of 10.0 cents per share
determined for FY14

Five year strategic plan now in place to achieve over
$300 million EBIT annually through internal initiatives
alone, with encouraging early stage gains beginning to
be realized

Sydney, Australia and New York, 22 August 2014
(ASX:SGM) (OTC:SMSMY) -- Sims Metal Management
Limited (the "Company") today announced a statutory
net loss after tax (NLAT) of $89 million, representing a
loss per diluted share of 43.5c for the full year ended 30
June 2014. Underlying net profit after tax (NPAT) was
$69 million, representing earnings per diluted share of
33.6 cents.
Sales revenue of $7,129 million in FY14 was down
0.9% compared to FY13. In constant currency terms,
sales revenue was down 10.5% due to lower sales
volumes and lower average non-ferrous and precious
metal prices.
Sales volumes of 11.8 million tonnes in FY14
decreased by 7.6% versus FY13, due in part to adverse
winter weather in North America. Underlying EBIT
margins nearly doubled, driven by cost reductions,
divestment of underperforming operations, and early
stage benefits from asset optimisation strategies.
Underlying EBIT was $119 million in FY14, an increase
of 77.1% over FY13.
In announcing the result, Group CEO Galdino Claro
said, "The FY14 result is a positive improvement over
last year in the face of still challenging market
conditions. While I am encouraged by the progress
we've made, much work still needs to be done."

"Our stronger result was driven by solid contributions
from our metals recycling businesses in Australasia and
Europe, where recent investments and restructuring
actions are translating into meaningfully improved
earnings. These gains were partially offset by lower
earnings from the e-recycling (SRS) businesses in the
UK and North America. Softer earnings in North America
metals recycling business were impacted by weak
volumes associated with atypically severe winter
weather in the second half. Despite these conditions,
sales margins improved in North America as the
business began to place more emphasis on
transactional profitability."

Regional Performance

Commenting further on the performance of the regions,
Mr Claro said, "Our Australasian region continued to
headline our Group results. Underlying EBIT of $86
million was up from $52 million in FY13, due to strong
gains from Australia Metals. Underlying EBIT margins

Page148of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.increased from 4.8% to 7.0% on the back of higher sales
volumes, which were up 16.4%, as well as the benefits
from recent capital upgrades at our facilities which
began to take hold."
"Underlying EBIT for Europe of $20 million was a
well-earned turnaround from a loss of $19 million in the
prior year. The improvement was driven by stronger
earnings from UK Metals where previously undertaken
restructuring actions have gained traction, providing a
substantial positive impact on operational efficiency.
These improvements were offset in part by continued
losses from UK SRS, which necessitated our recent
decision to materially exit that business."

"Despite the margin improvement already referred to,
underlying EBIT for North America of $13 million was
down from $34 million in FY13, due to weaker earnings
from both Metals Recycling and SRS, and abnormally
severe winter weather impacting volumes. Through the
year, we continued to takes steps to streamline North
America, including the exit from our non-core Aerospace
Metals, Alabama and Utah businesses, loss making Gulf
region metals recycling business, as well as our loss
making SRS operations in Canada."

Strategic Progress

Remarking on the recent strategic progress at the
Company, Mr Claro said, "As we begin fiscal 2015 we
have accelerated our five year strategic plan to achieve
over $300 million of annual EBIT through internal
initiatives alone. While still in the very early stages, our
implementation timelines remain on track as we roll out
the initiatives across the Group."

"The capital budgeting process has now been aligned to
the new strategic plan, with a high degree of scrutiny
placed on new project proposals. In part due to this
more rigorous process, capital expenditures were
reduced by $85 million compared to the prior
corresponding year, and no acquisitions were completed
in FY14. We will maintain rigor in our capital allocation to
ensure we execute on expansionary projects with the
highest realistic expected returns."

Final Dividend
The Company has determined to pay a final dividend
for FY14 of 10.0 cents per share, which will be fully
franked, on 21 October 2014 to shareholders on the
Company's register at the record date of 7 October
2014. This is an exception to the Company's dividend
policy which is to distribute 45% to 55% of NPAT,
subject to the discretion of the Board and remains
unchanged. The Company's Dividend Reinvestment
Plan remains suspended.

Market Conditions and Outlook

Mr Claro stated on the outlook, "The year ahead will be
an exciting time at Sims Metal Management. The work
towards implementing our five year strategic plan is
gathering pace, with further benefits from our Streamline
and Optimise phases to be delivered in FY15."

Page149of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."We expect 50% of the $32 million in annual EBIT
benefits from our Streamline program will be achieved in
FY15. Roughly half of this is anticipated to be realised in
the Europe region, related to the exit from our
historically loss making SRS business in the UK."
"FY15 capex is expected to be between $100 million to
$120 million, with expansionary capex devoted to
projects directly aligned with achieving the Optimise
goals set out in our strategic plan. Expansionary projects
planned for FY15 include the new yard and shredder
plant in Western Australia, and upgrade investments at
three of our non-ferrous metal recovery plants in North
America."

"At this early stage of trading in FY15, intake volume
has shown minor sequential improvement across all
regions we operate. Despite results so far in FY15 being
consistent with plan, we remain of the view that
conditions in the near-term will remain constrained."

Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking
Information

This release may contain forward-looking statements,
including statements about Sims Metal Management's
financial condition, results of operations, earnings
outlook and prospects. Forward-looking statements are
typically identified by words such as "plan," "believe,"
"expect," "anticipate," "intend," "outlook," "estimate,"
"forecast," "project" and other similar words and
expressions.

These forward-looking statements involve certain risks
and uncertainties. Our ability to predict results or the
actual effects of our plans and strategies is subject to
inherent uncertainty. Factors that may cause actual
results or earnings to differ materially from these
forward-looking statements include those discussed and
identified in filings we make with the Australian
Securities Exchange and the United States Securities
and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), including the risk
factors described in the Company's Annual Report on
Form 20-F, which we filed with the SEC on 16 October
2013.

Because these forward-looking statements are subject
to assumptions and uncertainties, actual results may
differ materially from those expressed or implied by
these forward-looking statements. You are cautioned not
to place undue reliance on these statements, which
speak only as of the date of this release.

All subsequent written and oral forward-looking
statements concerning the matters addressed in this
release and attributable to us or any person acting on
our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the
cautionary statements contained or referred to in this
release. Except to the extent required by applicable law
or regulation, we undertake no obligation to update
these forward-looking statements to reflect events or
circumstances after the date of this release.

All references to currencies, unless otherwise stated,
reflect measures in Australian dollars.

About Sims Metal Management

Page150of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Sims Metal Management is the world's largest listed
metal recycler with over 250 facilities and 6,000
employees globally. Sims' core businesses are metal
recycling and electronics recycling. Sims Metal
Management generates approximately 60% of its
revenue from operations in North America. The
Company's ordinary shares are listed on the Australian
Securities Exchange (ASX: SGM) and its ADRs are
listed in the United States on the Over-the-Counter
market (OTC:SMSMY).

(
http://www.simsmm.com/News-and-Reports/News-
Releases)

dsnyw : The Walt Disney Company | bkhlp : BHP Billiton
Ltd | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC
i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | i2245 : Aluminum | i211 : Metal
Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i224 : Non-ferrous
Metals | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying | i971 : Motion Pictures/Sound
Recording | i97101 : Cinema Film Production | imed :
Media/Entertainment | imopic : Motion Pictures
Recording/Publishing
ciprof : Industry Profile | gflood : Floods/Tidal Waves |
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General
News | gdis : Disasters/Accidents | gntdis : Natural
Disasters/Catastrophes | grisk : Risk News
austr : Australia | saustr : South Australia | usa : United
States | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific
| ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North America
Acquisdata
Document ACQIND0020141017eaaf00003

CO

IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page151of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.