Weekly news through Sept. 19

The Week in European Real Estate; Exclusive

SE
HD Weekly news through Sept. 19
BY
Ruth Heer
WC 956 words
PD
SN
SC
VOL Issue: 82275
LA
CY
LP

English
Copyright 2014. SNL Financial LC

23 September 2014
SNL Real Estate Daily: Asia-Pacific Edition
REAP

TD

Move of the week

Westfield Corp. Ltd. is rumored to be seeking an entry into the French market. Apparently, the Australian
mall giant is in talks with a unit of supermarket chain Auchan to develop a mall in the southern city Plaine
du Var, near Nice. The project has an investment tag of up to €400 million and an end value in excess of
€1 billion. Completion is scheduled for 2015. Also in the running for the contract is French developer
Klépierre, which is set to take over Dutch peer Corio NV. According to Australian media reports, Westfield
has held talks "with multiple parties" to get their feet on French soil.

A few weeks earlier, the mall developer raised its bet on Italy and wider Europe, upping its stake in a €1.4
billion project in Milan. At the time, co-chief and Westfield founder Steven Lowy was cited as saying that
the company had the capital to examine other opportunities and "a very serious base in Europe" out of its
London office.

Other market news
* In separate deals, Blackstone Group LP struck two office deals in Germany's financial hub of Frankfurt.
The firm reportedly paid €250 million to buy the MesseTurm office tower from GLL Real Estate Partners
and spent more than €100 million for the purchase of the Pollux building from IVG Immobilien AG.
The latter company exited insolvency the same week, after the District Court in Bonn, lifted the insolvency
proceedings for IVG's assets. The resolution enabled the company to operate without restrictions again.
Now largely owned by hedge and opportunity funds that took control in a €2.2 billion debt-for-equity
swap, IVG reportedly eyes a return to the capital market.

Meanwhile, efforts to sell the Gherkin in London's City were stepped up in the U.S. The asset used to be
jointly owned by IVG, but fell into receivership in April and is being marketed by Savills and Deloitte with a
price tag of some $1.1 billion. Following Savills' acquisition of U.S. brokerage firmStudley Inc., one of
New York's best-known salespeople is now said to be pulling the strings to attract more suitable buyers.
Woody Heller is rumored to have lined up more than 20 meetings with parties interested in 30 St. Mary
Axe.

* Peter Verwer, CEO of the APREA, touched on the capital market appetite for sustainability. As far as
real estate is concerned, Verwer stated in a letter to APREA members that sustainability related income
streams and "true-to-label product" could access deep pools of long-term capital at attractive rates. He
noted, "Green real estate portfolios can deliver total return premiums to the mainstream market."
Unibail-Rodamco SE's green bond launch earlier this year was a testament to this enormous interest in
climate-themed projects, Verwer highlighted, describing the REIT's debut in the field as a "stunning
success."
M&A activity
China-based conglomerate Fosun International has made a counterbid for Club Méditerranée, adding fuel
to a heated battle with Italian businessman Andrea Bonomi. Alongside other investors, Fosun International
offered to pay €22 per share and €23.23 for each convertible bond in the French resort operator, valuing
the company at €839 million. Following the move, Bonomi is said to be considering raising his present
offer of €21 per share. The Italian already owns a 10% stake in Club Med.

Page6of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Widening the footprint
German real estate player PATRIZIA Immobilien AG has further widened its European territory and
established a presence in Finland. The firm noted that the Finnish market had "great potential." After
investing in residential and commercial real estate assets in Finland, PATRIZIA has now added its own
team and an office in Helsinki. The office is managed by the PATRIZIA Nordics subsidiary, based in
Copenhagen, which has some €550 million in AUM.

Liquidity path
* S IMMO AG seeks to issue a €100 million fixed-interest corporate bond with a maturity of five years, the
Austrian company said Sept. 17. Erste Group Bank AG and Raiffeisen Bank International AG were
mandated as joint lead managers. The company will provide further details on the offering upon
finalization of the book building process Sept. 24. The subscription period is set to commence Sept. 29.
* Intu Properties Plc secured a new £163.2 million seven-year loan and revolving credit facilities with
Wells Fargo Bank to refinance its 50% share in St David's Shopping Centre, Cardiff, Wales. The final
maturity of the loan is July 2021, split into a £122.5 million term loan and a £40.7 million committed
revolving credit facility, which is undrawn. The proceeds will be used to repay the company's £78 million
share of the £156 million debt on the Welsh center, which matured at the end of August.

Now featured on SNL
The Eastern Front: COFCO Land extends its reach: Chinese commercial property developer COFCO
Land's HK$12.46 billion acquisition of shopping malls from its state-owned parent company paves the
way for its long-term shift toward mixed-use projects, industry observers told SNL Financial.

IPO Monitor for the week ending Sept. 17: Six companies are looking to list in Norway, Germany,
Australia, the United Arab Emirates, Thailand and Hong Kong.
Research Roundup: European Real Estate edition for week ending Sept. 18: The week saw price target
updates on Irish Residential, TAG Immobilien and LEG Immobilien.
Hires and Fires: European, Asian real estate moves through Sept. 16: SNL Financial presents a weekly
rundown of recent significant management and board changes and personnel moves in the European
and Asia-Pacific real estate industries.

CO lcblim : Klepierre SA | vib : Corio NV | wmgqhk : Westfield Corporation Limited | westgp : Westfield Group |

IN

NS
RE

banqnp : BNP Paribas SA
ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150206
: Investment Trusts/Funds | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv :
Investing/Securities
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
fin : Finland | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | eecz : European Union
Countries | eurz : Europe | nordz : Nordic Countries

IPD Industry News
PUB SNL Financial LC
AN

Document REAP000020140926ea9n00002

Page7of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.