Energy Sales of state plants now in doubt

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Energy Sales of state plants now in doubt

Brian Robins
625 words
5 March 2014
Canberra Times
CANBTZ
B009
English
(c) 2014 The Canberra Times

Energy Sales of state plants now in doubt

ACCC pulls plug on AGL expansion

Brian Robins
The decision by the competition watchdog to block energy giant AGL's purchase of Macquarie
Generation, the largest generator in the national electricity market, may limit future government sales of
large electricity plants. "Government can't sell remaining [electricity] assets," one industry consultant said
on Tuesday, following the decision by the Australia Competition and Consumer Commission. "The
exchange of assets is now problematic." The decision prompted the NSW government to withdraw
Macquarie Generation from sale on Tuesday. Buying Macquarie Generation for $1.5 billion would have
resulted in AGL's generation capacity matching its market position, making it more

valuable to AGL than other bidders. Low bidders included ERM Power, which has a smaller market
position. Power generators and retailers are seeking to merge to remove market risk as state
governments quit the sector, Professor John Quiggin of the University of Queensland said, with private
monopolies emerging to replace public monopolies. Splitting the generators from the retailers "created
risks that didn't exist before", he said. "The market reform process was misconceived from the start. We
need to abandon the notion that the market can do all of these things." Buying Macquarie Generation
would have resulted in AGL owning the largest generators in New South Wales, Victoria and South
Australia. As a result, ACCC chairman Rod Sims said he was concerned about
the "likely competitive impact of the proposed acquisition in one or more of the wholesale electricity
markets in these regions". The deal would "prevent vigorous competition with AGL, Origin and
EnergyAustralia", he said. In NSW alone, these three would have controlled as much as 80 per cent of
generation capacity if the sale went ahead. The three already control as much as 95 per cent of market
demand for electricity. "This is likely to raise barriers to entry and expansion for other electricity retailers
in NSW and therefore reduce competition," Mr Sims said of the proposed deal. NSW Treasurer Mike
Baird said the government could break Macquarie Generation in two. But a spokesman for Mr Baird said
"there is no Plan B although a
sale may be looked at again in a year or so, if asset values change". The government is also seeking to
offload its remaining power generators - Delta's central coast operations, along with a clutch of
renewable generators. Macquarie's Bayswater and Liddell stations can produce a combined 4.64
megawatts of electricity, equal to 40 per cent of NSW's total demand and 15 per cent of the national
electricity market. They are the lowest-cost generators in NSW. Earlier, Origin Energy bought Eraring,
which has 2.88 megawatts of capacity, from the NSW government, while Hong Kong-owned
EnergyAustralia acquired Mount Piper (1.4 MW) and Wallerawang (1MW). One of Wallerawang's two
units has already been idled due to weak demand and low prices, with

the second to be turned off at the end of the month. The ACCC said the AGL deal would cause a
"significant reduction both in hedge market liquidity and the supply of competitively priced and
appropriately customised hedge contracts to second tier retailers competing in NSW. "In particular, it
does not appear likely that the remaining non- aligned generators in NSW, Delta Coast and Snowy

Page193of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Hydro, would be able to provide a sufficient quantity and type of hedge cover to be able to adequately
service the requirements of second-tier retailers," Mr Sims said. AGL undertook to ensure that during
times of high electricity demand, some capacity would be provided to smaller retailers, but this was
insufficient to offset the ACCC's competition concerns.

RF
CO
IN
NS

54702969
macgen : Macquarie Generation | agkega : AGL Energy Limited
i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i16101 : Electric Power Generation | ieutil : Electric Utilities | iutil : Utilities
c182 : Asset Transactions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB Federal Capital Press of Australia Pty Ltd
AN

Document CANBTZ0020140304ea350000w

Page194of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.