Visa review to lure more Chinese rich Visa review to lure more Chinese rich More than 1 million Chinese can 'easily afford' to buy in Sydney.  Photo: bloomberg

SE
HD

BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Visa review to lure more Chinese rich Visa review to lure more Chinese rich More than 1 million
Chinese can 'easily afford' to buy in Sydney.  Photo: bloomberg
Matthew Cranston, Jacob Greber and Rebecca Thistleton
940 words
10 March 2014
BRW
BRW
First
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

A program that provides residency visas to Chinese and other millionaires with $5 million to invest in
Australia is set to be expanded.

The Abbott government is reviewing and plans to expand the significant investment visa program, which
has granted four-year visas to 116 foreigners in just over a year.

The review will seek ways of speeding up approvals and will consider expanding the assets the
$5 million can be invested in beyond bond and commercial property funds, possibly to venture capital
and start-ups.

Assistant Minister for Immigration and Border Protection Michaelia Cash said the review could result in
the introduction of permanent residency visas for investment migrants.

The review is unlikely to allow investment in houses and apartments because of the political
repercussions from the fear of Australian buyers being squeezed out of the market.
Chinese are the biggest buyers of direct real estate in Australia, according to the Foreign Investment
Review Board's latest tally of approvals. That has given rise to concerns about distortions in the market .

Reserve Bank governor Glenn Stevens said it was up to politicians to respond to community concerns
about Asian investors buying Australian property, which he said was being driven by the region's wealth
surge.

"Just as Middle Eastern and Russian money likes to have places in London, there's certainly a sense in
which affluent people in Asia – it wouldn't just be China – like to have property in Australia," he said.
"[The] Chinese population . . . have become quite affluent pretty quickly, and . . . when that happens, one
of the things they do is acquire assets in other places." Credit Suisse estimated there were 1.1 million
Chinese who could "easily afford" to buy apartments in Sydney and could spend $44 billion over
the next seven years on Australian real estate.
Current Chinese investment in residential real estate is less than 2 per cent of the overall residential
property turnover each year.
Credit Suisse expects a 30 per cent rise in potential Chinese investment. Under the Abbott government,
the rate of special investment visas granted has increased. Since the program started in November
2012, only 28 visas were approved up to the 2013 election. There have since been 88 approvals – a
tripling in half the time.

"We recognise there are significant implementation issues that are currently holding up the progress of
this program and we want to get this review under way to send a clear message that Australia is open for
business on this visa," Senator Cash said.

The Canadian government has just shut down a similar scheme after 28 years.

Page156of270©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.There are 46,000 applicants outstanding and there are some expectations the leftover might fuel
demand for Australian visas.
Approved Australian special visas, 90 per cent of which went to Chinese investors, have resulted in
more than $580 million in investments. A further 486 applicants are being processed.
One of the most successful funds to have attracted such investment is the Moelis Australia Property
Visa Fund.

Moelis managing director Andrew Martin said expanding the investment criteria and speeding up
approval times would benefit Australia.

"There is a view that Australia has overvalued its visa but you have to remember this is aimed at
attracting the sweet spot of genuine investors."
Mr Martin said there were Chinese investors who were buying $400,000 homes in Portugal in order to
gain Portuguese nationality and ultimately a ticket into the European Union.

"That is attracting a completely different calibre of people than Australia is with its SIV," Mr Martin said.
His fund has more than $100 million in commitments and has already made its first purchase of a
$22 million shopping centre in the Yarra Valley.
Some SIV-compliant funds have established ways for new residents to invest in established property.

Aura Funds Management launched two funds last year and placed on its advisory committee John
McGrath of John McGrath Real Estate and JLL's Asia Pacific chief operating officer, Albert Ovidi.
AFM managing director Avi Naidu said fears Asian investment into Australian property would inflate
prices were unfounded.

"These are high-net worth people with at least $5 million to invest. They're not interested in the first and
middle home buyer market and that's where all the concern is," he said.

He agreed with Mr Stevens, who said it should not be "beyond our capacity" to serve Asian demand and
local requirements for new homes.

"It goes to how welcoming we want to be to foreign investment generally," Mr Stevens said.

"With all due respect, this is a matter for our Parliament to manage."

The visa review was praised by venture capitalist Mark Carnegie.
He said the visas should provide more flexibility for Chinese capital to flow into Australian technology
start-ups.
"Why should we treat Chinese capital any differently? My answer is come one, come all," he said.

"There is a giant vacuum that sucks up all the talent out of Australia and puts it Silicon Valley. In my
mind we need to collaborate with China to change this."
The review follows comments made by the chairman of the Foreign Investment Review Board, Brian
Wilson, who visited China last year.
"The visit [to China] included a focus on broadening our constructive investment dialogue into regions
not previously visited, allowing for a more extensive appreciation of Chinese investors, their investment
prospects and their understanding of our foreign investment regime," Mr Wilson said.

RE

PUB
AN

austr : Australia | china : China | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | nswals : New South Wales
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document BRW0000020140310ea3a00008

Page157of270©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.