Gurner bets $600m on Brisbane cafe culture

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Gurner bets $600m on Brisbane cafe culture

Matthew Cranston
554 words
20 March 2014
BRW
BRW
First
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Property developer and BRW Young Rich lister Tim Gurner is betting on a rising Brisbane apartment
market, with plans for a $600 million project in the suburb of Fortitude Valley.
The collection of proposed residential towers, one of which is modelled on New York's Flatiron building,
will comprise more than 700 apartments as well as a 100-apartment hotel.

It will be the first interstate residential project for Mr Gurner's private development company, Gurner. "I
am confident about Brisbane. Western Australia I couldn't get my head around, Sydney was too hot and
Melbourne hasn't seen the yield you get in Brisbane for 15 years," Mr Gurner said.

After amalgamating land seven months ago for sums he believes are about half the price being paid by
developers in the city now, Mr Gurner brought in architects Elenberg Fraser – the firm behind the design
of what will arguably be Melbourne's tallest residential tower.

Plans have been lodged with Brisbane City Council for the mixed-use, multitower project that will include
5000 square metres of retail in the bustling Brunswick Street area.

Mr Gurner has been working with the council on designs and amenity and has 360 Degrees Landscape
Architects, famed for the Ivy in Sydney, to plan communal spaces.

"This is all about delivering on design," Mr Gurner said, "I went to New York and London to study how
they live and I want to take this project to the next level. The scale of this site will offer a lot of amenities.
We will have a pool bar, karaoke bar and outdoor cinema."From 'quirky' to desirable

Elenberg Fraser's Callum Fraser said while the inclusion of so much might seem "topsy-turvy", there
was actually a lot of science behind the design.

"Urban communities are very young," he said. "And five years ago the Valley was just a quirky place.
Now it is getting international recognition."
Gurner had been looking for a site in Brisbane for more than a year. The firm had been an underbidder
on a site in the suburb of South Brisbane which sold to ARIA Property Group for $10 million.

Mr Gurner said he was specifically targeting the cafe cultures of Fortitude Valley and South Brisbane.

"I am aiming for the 24- to 40-year-old demographic," he said, "That demographic accounts for 76 per
cent of Fortitude Valley."

The first stage of the project, which is yet to be named, will include 340 apartments. The one-bedroom
apartments will range in price from $380,000 to $415,000, while two-bedroom apartments will range from
$480,000 to $650,000. Mr Gurner is expecting more than half of the apartments to sell to local buyers.

"There is a lot of talk about the supply levels in Brisbane, but it is nothing like the scale in Melbourne," he
said.

Page116of315©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."The value in Brisbane is better. A two-bedroom, 75-square-metre apartment here would be a
penthouse in Melbourne," he said.READ NEXT: Brisbane apartment data raises questions Apartment
glut threat to inner cities 2014: The year of the Chinese developer
Key points Developer Tim Gurner prefers yields in Brisbane. His firm has plans for a multi-tower project
with New York-style amenities.

CO
IN
RE

PUB
AN

bristu : Brisbane City Council
ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | melb : Melbourne | queensl : Queensland | victor : Victoria
(Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document BRW0000020140320ea3k00001

Page117of315©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.