Ergon's forests up for sale

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Finance
Ergon's forests up for sale

GINA RUSHTON
360 words
7 March 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
1 - All-round Country
27
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

AMID debates about the future of Australia's timber industry, the Queensland government has
finally put a raft of forestry assets to market this week through its power subsidiary Ergon Energy.

A flock of foreign and local investors are circling the 3700ha of hardwood forests, which are
expected to fetch as much as $20 million.

Among the interested investors were underbidders from Tasmanian company Gunn's circa $40m
land and timber sale this week, said former forestry worker David Smith, head of timberland
transactions at CBRE, which is marketing the assets.
``We've got interest from institutional investors off the back of the Gunns sale as many of the
underbidders couldn't afford those estates. We've also got interest from China and the US,'' he
said.

The power supplier originally invested in hardwood forestry plantations to support its network of
nearly one million poles, 92 per cent of which are hardwood.
In 2010, Ergon Energy had aspirations to secure up to 10,000ha of land under management across
regional Queensland but a review into the company's network costs last year recommended the
assets should be culled, with the proceeds reinvested into core network assets.

The new purchaser will have a ``massive opportunity'' to capitalise on Ergon's continued need to
source the hardwood to replace its poles at a rate of 12,000 to 24,000 a year, Mr Smith said.

``They still need the poles, so they're selling it off with the hope they can negotiate with the
purchaser to guarantee the poles, which might result in Ergon paying a premium on those poles.''

Tony Abbott has come under attack this week for declaring Australia has ``too much locked-up
forest'' and that forestry workers are ``the ultimate conservationists'', but Mr Smith said timber
hardwood was the most environmentally friendly option for power poles.

``It is much better for the environment to use wood poles over steel or concrete,'' he said.

Meanwhile, Ergon's GPS technology business Roames was sold this week to Dutch multinational
Fugro in a deal estimated to be worth between $20m and $40m.

NS
RE
PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140306ea370002v

Page11of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.