Rio Tinto Considers Exiting Papua New Guinea Copper Mine; New Law Threatens Project, Closed for 25 Years, as It Moves Toward Reopening

SE
HD

BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
ED
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Rio Tinto Considers Exiting Papua New Guinea Copper Mine; New Law Threatens Project,
Closed for 25 Years, as It Moves Toward Reopening
By Rhiannon Hoyle
716 words
18 August 2014
15:01
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

SYDNEY—Rio Tinto has maintained control of its closed Bougainville copper mine through
independence clashes in Papua New Guinea.
But as the mine today edges toward restarting after a quarter-century and copper prices are strong,
Rio might head for the exit.

The Anglo-Australian company on Monday said it was reviewing its options for its controlling stake in
Bougainville Copper Ltd., after the government passed new laws that could strip the company of its
lease on its Panguna mine.
When Panguna—one of the world's biggest copper deposits—started operations in 1972, Papua
New Guinea saw the project in Bougainville as a path to riches. The impoverished country then was
still under Australian control and had little industry beyond fishing the schools of tuna that swam near
its shores.

But islanders soon became envious that revenue that was flowing to government coffers in Port
Moresby rather than to Bougainville schools, health clinics and local incomes. Those frustrations,
combined with worries over the mine's poor environmental record, burst into violence in 1989 when
militants forced the mine to shut down.
Just before it closed, the mine was producing around 166,000 metric tons of copper and 450,000 troy
ounces of gold a year. That is enough copper for 7.3 million typical American-made cars.

A secessionist rebellion that led to thousands of deaths ended with a cease-fire in 1998 but the mine
remained closed.

This year, however, there were signs that the mine was on the path to being rebuilt as rising demand
from China for copper in apartment buildings and electric grids pushed prices higher.
Mining executives, landowners and the Bougainville and national governments have been working
toward a reconciliation ceremony known as a bel kol—"best translated as a cooling of the heart, or a
lowering of the emotional temperature," said Peter Taylor, the chairman of Bougainville Copper for
more than a decade.
But mining laws were passed this month that will transfer mining regulation to Bougainville's
autonomous government from Papua New Guinea's national government.
Under the legislation, Bougainville Copper—in which Papua New Guinea's government holds a 19%
interest—would lose its mining lease for Panguna. It would be exchanged for an exploration license.
Rio Tinto would have to reapply for the lease.

Page133of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."Rio Tinto has decided now is an appropriate time to review all options for its 54% stake in
Bougainville Copper," said the company, which is reviewing the implications of the mining bill.
Private shareholders own 27% of Bougainville Copper.

Some economists questioned the mine's viability if Rio walked away.

"Rio Tinto is large enough to have done their sums, looking at the costs of benefits, so I don't know if
we will see a new player on the scene," said Satish Chand, a finance professor at the University of
New South Wales.
Chinese buyers, however, have expressed interest in copper deposits, looking to feed a voracious
appetite for the industrial metal in the world's No. 2 economy. Guangdong Rising Assets Management
Co. has been considering a takeover of PanAust Ltd., an Australian company that is about to acquire
Glencore PLC's majority stake in Papua New Guinea's Frieda River copper deposit.
Bougainville Copper has estimated it would take between five and seven years to reopen the
Panguna mine, should the company win approvals and secure financing.
A 2012 study forecast that US$5.2 billion was needed to get the site back into production. The study
estimated there was at least another five million tons of copper and 19 million ounces of gold to be
mined at the site, which would sustain operations for more than two decades.

Many landowners oppose reopening the mine, however, and have been demanding more
compensation for past environmental damage along the nearby Jaba River.

"At the moment, a lot of income is earned through exports of cocoa, and the government will need to
look at the impact the mine and so-called Dutch Disease may have on agriculture," said Prof. Chand,
referring to an economic theory regarding the negative consequences from the development of natural
resources.

bgnvl : Bougainville Copper Ltd | craaus : Rio Tinto Ltd | rtz : Rio Tinto PLC
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2114 : Copper Ore/Nickel Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources
| imet : Mining/Quarrying
mcopp : Copper Markets | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | m14 : Commodity Markets | m142 :
Metals Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mnonfr : Non-ferrous Metals | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter
papng : Papua New Guinea | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | pacisz : Pacific Islands | austr :
Australia
Asian Business News
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document WSJO000020140818ea8i0025t

CO
IN

NS

RE

IPD
PUB
AN

Page134of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.