East Perth apartment deals for Finbar, JAXON

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

East Perth apartment deals for Finbar, JAXON

Dan Wilkie
370 words
14 October 2014
Business News
WABN
English
© Copyright 2014 Business News Pty Ltd.

The rollout of major apartment projects is continuing in East Perth, with Finbar Group unveiling a
new joint venture on Adelaide Terrace, and JAXON signing a $45 million deal to build the last stage
of Frasers Property's Queens Riverside precinct.
Finbar announced today it had inked a new joint venture to develop a $150 million, 200-apartment
complex at 63 Adelaide Terrace.

The project will rise 32-storeys above the Terrace and will also include ground floor commercial
lots.
The developer said it negotiated the purchase of the land on behalf of investment company Perth
Upper China Hotel Pty Ltd, for $15 million.
Under the joint venture, Perth Upper China Hotel will contribute $20 million to fund the acquisition
and provide working capital, while Finbar will put in $10 million, secure development finance and
carry out the redevelopment of the site.

Both parties will share equally in the development profits, while Finbar will also earn a management
fee.

Design works are under way and marketing will commence late next year, while construction is
scheduled to begin early in 2016.
Meanwhile, diversified construction company JAXON has signed its second deal with Frasers
Property to build the last residential building at the Queens Riverside precinct.

JAXON said the contract to build Lily at Queens Riverside was worth around $45 million.
The eight-storey project will comprise 126 apartments and five commercial tenancies.

Frasers appointed East Perth apartments specialist MLG Realty to carry out marketing and sales for
Lily at Queens Riverside in August.
Construction has begun on site, with works expected to be complete before the end of next year.
JAXON is also building the 107-apartment QII at Queens Riverside, which is set to be finished by
March, under a $35 million contract.

Finbar managing director Darren Pateman said the eastern end of Adelaide Terrace was in the
middle of an "exciting transformation".

"We believe this is a very opportune time for us to secure our next East Perth project, supplement
our overall project pipeline and provide us with the continuity of business in this highly sought-after
inner city apartment location," Mr Pateman said in a statement to the ASX.

CO

lomdm : Finbar Group Ltd

Page242of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

i85 : Real Estate Transactions | i8500031 : Residential Property Dealing/Owning | icre : Real
Estate/Construction | ireest : Real Estate | irreal : Residential Real Estate
c184 : Joint Ventures | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry
News Filter
austr : Australia | perth : Perth | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Business News Pty Ltd
Document WABN000020141014eaae0002t

Page243of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.