Bright Food gets 2nd Aussie firm

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Bright Food gets 2nd Aussie firm

He Wei in Shanghai
491 words
14 January 2014
China Daily-US Edition
CDUSDE
15
English
Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Company. All rights reserved.

Bright Food Group Co Ltd, China's second-largest food producer, acquired a midsized Australian
dairy company following the purchase of Manassen Foods in the same country.
Manassen, in which Bright Food has a 75 percent stake, has signed a deal to buy Mundella Foods,
a four-decade-old company in Western Australia, according to Bright Food spokesman Pan Jianjun.

The deal will make Mundella a wholly owned subsidiary of Manassen, a supplier and distributor of
local and international foods, Pan told China Daily on Monday.

Financial details were not disclosed.

Records filed with the Australian Securities and Investments Commission showed that significant
management changes occurred at Mundella last month, including the appointment of directors from
Manassen to the smaller dairy company.

Pan confirmed that Manassen's senior employees will take managerial roles in Mundella and
oversee its operations.
Bright Food paid $516 million in 2011 for its majority stake in Manassen, which has a strong
presence in West Australia through its ownership of Margaret River Dairy Co and gourmet olive
group Don Vica.

Mundella, which is also based in West Australia, was founded in 1972, when the Hector family used
surplus milk to make dairy products and supply local shops. The company does not publish
financial reports.
The recently acquired company owns one of West Australia's best-known dairy brands and has
secured broad distribution of its products, such as yogurts and cheeses, through local supermarkets
and specialty food stores, Pan added.

The move will help enrich Manassen's product line.
The State-backed Bright Food plans to expand its major business areas - dairy products, wines,
sugar and branded food products - overseas.

Prioritizing targets in Australia, New Zealand and Europe, Bright Food has taken bites of foreign
assets to boost overseas sales.
Apart from Manassen, it bought French wine merchant Diva Bordeaux and British cerealmaker
Weetabix, and it's also in talks with Tnuva Food Industries Ltd, Israel's biggest food manufacturer
and distributor.
The Shanghai-based firm is contemplating listing some of its foreign assets.

Bright Food said it's also mapping out an aggressive plan to place its products in new channels.

Page287of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."We're creating a genuine global network by allowing, for instance, British customers to access
Mundella's cheese, or Australian consumers to have a taste of French wine," Pan said.
Bright Food holds a 5.7 percent share of China's 174 billion yuan ($28.54 billion) dairy market,
ranking fourth in the domestic market, according to Euromonitor International.

It has a market share of 1.4 percent in terms of packaged foods and 1.6 percent in the ice cream
market, said the London-based firm.
In 2013, Chinese companies launched overseas M&A deals worth about $56.2 billion, and overall
M&A activity will likely stay buoyant in 2014, said a Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu report.
hewei@chinadaily.com.cn

mnssfd : Manassen Foods | brgfdc : Bright Food (Group) Co Ltd | amezza : Castle Harlan Australian
Mezzanine Partners Pty Ltd
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp : Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products
c18 : Ownership Changes | cacqu : Acquisitions | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
China Daily Information Company
Document CDUSDE0020140114ea1e0000e

CO

IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page288of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.