Lindeman back on the redevelopment map

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Lindeman back on the redevelopment map

LISA ALLEN, Tourism
531 words
4 November 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
21
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

EXCLUSIVE TWO years after hitting the national headlines with the acquisition of Lindeman Island,
Chinese cable-TV operator Whitehorse Australia is deciding whether to build a five-star as well as a
six-star resort as part of a $450 million redevelopment of the island off Queensland’s coast.
Whitehorse Australia, represented by William Han, has brought in a new Mainland Chinese partner
experienced in resort development to assist with the redevelopment of the island, which he bought for
$12 million from Club Med in 2012.

Port Douglas-based architects Hunt Design have developed concept plans for residential and tourist
development on Lindeman Island to suit both Australian and international tourists. Whitehorse
Australia also submitted detailed environmental studies with various government departments and
statutory authorities as part of its plans for the island’s redevelopment and is also weighing concept
plans from a Gold Coast architecture firm.
Many of Queensland’s islands and resorts, such as Great Keppel Island, are being redeveloped while
others are either officially or unofficially on the market including South Molle in the Whitsundays and
Hook Island off Proserpine. At Palm Cove, north of Cairns, Kewarra Beach Resort, which is owned by
IT entrepreneur Sean Howard, is also said to be on the market.
The 296-room Daydream Island resort is also again officially on the market with vacant possession
offered by its owner, former vitamin-maker Vaughan Bullivant.

Expressions of interest in the resort, which has been advertised worldwide, close on Thursday through
Ray White, CBRE and White & Partners. The initial $65m asking price for Daydream has been
slashed to about $30m.
To help with the sale, Hunt Design has prepared concept plans for both a prestige residential
community or additional 18-suite resort facilities to be developed on Daydream that could cost as
much as $20m.

“We have been asked to prepare concept designs for a boutique six-star resort similar to Hamilton
Island’s qualia resort as well as plans for a premium-standard residential enclave,” said Gary Hunt,
principal of Hunt Design. “Daydream Island’s owners are also looking at adding some more rooms in
the Coral Sea wing to improve standards because people are looking for fabulous ensuites,’’ he said.
Meanwhile, mining entrepreneur Peter Bond is continuing with his redevelopment of Dunk Island,
which was hit hard by Cyclone Yasi in 2011. Mr Bond is weighing up whether to build a boutique
resort on the island, with the final configuration still to be determined.
Great Keppel Island’s owner, Terry Agnew, of Tower Holdings, will soon announce his $2 billion
plans for the island, including a Greg Norman-designed golf course. And Computershare founder
Chris Morris, the owner of Queensland’s Orpheus Island, has just spent more than $1m upgrading
four of the island’s suites and is expected to put in a new jetty.

Page238of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mr Hunt, who designed the southern suites in the beachcomber chic style, said they were with guests.
Mr Morris is also looking at adding a new spa to the island. Mr Morris spent $6.25m buying Orpheus
Island about three years ago.

Primespace P29Margin call P32

NS
RE
PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141103eab40000d

Page239of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.