RPT-UPDATE 2-Wilmar, First Pacific confirm raising bid for Australia's Goodman Fielder

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

RPT-UPDATE 2-Wilmar, First Pacific confirm raising bid for Australia's Goodman Fielder

670 words
16 May 2014
05:33
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2014 Reuters Limited

(Repeats with no changes)

* Wilmar, First Pacific increase offer to A$0.70/shr

* Goodman had rejected initial approach as opportunistic

* Goodman shares close at A$0.67, above initial offer price
* Goodman selling NZ dairy business - document

By Rujun Shen and Lincoln Feast

SINGAPORE/SYDNEY, May 15 (Reuters) - Wilmar International and First Pacific Co have sweetened
a deal to take over Goodman Fielder Ltd, after the Australian food firm rejected the initial bid as too
low last month.

Wilmar and First Pacific raised their bid from A$0.65 to A$0.70 per share, lifting the size of the deal
from A$1.3 billion ($1.22 billion) to A$1.37 billion, a Wilmar statement said, confirming an earlier
media report.
"The Company (Wilmar) and First Pacific will not increase the price further in the absence of a
competing proposal," Wilmar said in the statement, adding that the two companies has given the
board of Goodman Fielder until 8 p.m. on May 16, Melbourne time, to support the revised bid.

The higher price represents a premium of about 33 percent over Goldman Fielder's closing price of
A$0.525 per share on April 23, the statement said. Goodman Fielder shares closed at A$0.672 on
Thursday.
Last month, Goodman rejected the $1.2 billion takeover bid from Wilmar and First Pacific as too low,
fuelling expectations of a higher or rival bid.

Goodman sought a trading halt until May 19 while it considered the potential "change of control
transaction".

Australian and New Zealand food assets such as Goodman Fielder have become increasingly
attractive to offshore investors, as the countries position themselves to provide for Asia's rapidly
growing middle-class.
A deal would bring the maker of Country Life bread and Meadow Lea margarine under the wing of a
palm oil and sugar giant that wants to create a leading Asia-Pacific agriculture and consumer staples
company, and which could capitalise on Wilmar's strong distribution channels in China.
Wilmar already owns a 10.1 percent stake in Goodman Fielder, and is the company's third-largest
shareholder.

First Pacific had entered into conditional agreements with Goodman Fielder's two largest
Shareholders, Perpetual Investment Management Ltd and Ellerston Capital Ltd, to acquire 4.8 percent
of Goodman Fielder shares, at A$0.70.

Page150of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The conditional agreements also entitle First Pacific to acquire an additional 5 percent of Goodman
Fielder shares at A$0.70. The conditions include the approval from the Australian Foreign Investment
Review Board.
Singapore-based Wilmar is the world's largest palm oil processor, and First Pacific is headed by
Indonesian tycoon Anthoni Salim whose Salim Group businesses include Indofood Sukses Makmur
Tbk (Indofood), one of the world's largest instant noodle producers.
GOODMAN FIELDER SELLING NZ DAIRY BUSINESS

Goodman described the initial bid as "opportunistic" and sought to fend off the approach by pressing
ahead with earlier plans to sell its New Zealand dairy business.
"Dairy is a highly valued business for (Goodman Fielder) given the unique platform it provides to
access the strong demand growth in Asia for high quality, branded dairy products," Goodman's
bankers Credit Suisse said in an offer document obtained by Reuters.

"While (Goodman Fielder) is willing to continue pursuing this opportunity alone, it considers that
exploitation of the opportunity could be accelerated via capital and expertise provided by a partner."
Wilmar said earlier that it would not be interested in pursuing the deal if Goodman Fieldersold off its
dairy business.

Goodman cut its earnings guidance for 2014 by as much as 15 percent, saying that trading conditions
had deteriorated and that planned measures to save on manufacturing and supply chain costs had
been delayed.

Wilmar and First Pacific have appointed Bank of America Merrill Lynch and UBS as advisers.

($1 = 1.0671 Australian Dollars) (Reporting by Rujun Shen; editing by Susan Thomas)

Released: 2014-5-15T20:33:40.000Z
fdgl : Goodman Fielder Ltd
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp : Consumer Goods
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | nz : New Zealand | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Business
SERVICE:ND
Thomson Reuters (Markets) LLC
Document LBA0000020140515ea5f00cnq

RF
CO
IN
NS

RE
IPD
IPC
PUB
AN

Page151of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.