Australia's Central Bank Likely More Satisfied Economy on the Up -- Market Talk

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Australia's Central Bank Likely More Satisfied Economy on the Up -- Market Talk

1,651 words
29 July 2014
14:08
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

Contact us in Singapore. 65 64154 140; MarketTalk@dowjones.com

0408 GMT [Dow Jones] Australian consumers have now completely shrugged off concerns about the
government's budget in May, and are moving on with life, says Craig James, chief economist at
Commsec. Mr. James was citing the ANZ Bank's survey of confidence which showed a 2.4% rise in the
week ending July 27. Mr. James says that not only has consumer sentiment recovered from the
post-budget slump but sentiment levels are holding at the best levels in seven months. The Reserve
Bank would be more comfortable with the latest round of economic data and it is unlikely to look to shift
interest rate settings any time soon, Mr. James said. (james.glynn@wsj.com)

0404 GMT [Dow Jones] London topped out as the most popular destination for Chinese investing in
property overseas during the first half of the year, according to a report Tuesday by Jones Lang LaSalle.
The Chinese invested $2.3 billion in London property, followed by $548 million in San Francisco and
$465 million in Chicago during that period. Overall, Chinese spent $5.4 billion in overseas commercial
and residential property in the first half of the year, up 17% from the same period last year. Most of that
went to commercial property. The Chinese who are buying property overseas for the first time tend to
target the "most liquid cities," although more experienced ones are looking at "smaller, less liquid
markets," said Jones Lang's Global Capital Markets Research Director David Green-Morgan, in the
report. (chao.deng@wsj.com; Twitter @chao_deng)
0402 GMT [Dow Jones] Mining executives hope an innovation drive will win back some investors turned
off by years of heavy spending, with fund managers having been critical of a marked slump in
productivity in recent years. Catherine Raw, a portfolio manager at BlackRock Inc., thinks miners should
be adopting applicable best practices from across other industries to improve the efficiency of their
operations. "Generally the mining industry needs to learn how to look up and out a bit more than it
does," says Raw, who co-manages its US$8 billion world mining fund. As commodity prices rallied
there simply wasn't the will among executives to drive productivity hard, she says. Mining isn't perfectly
suited to the "cookie-cutter type solution" that can be rolled out across manufacturing, for example, she
says, but adds: "I think you can aspire to it." (rhiannon.hoyle@wsj.com; Twitter: @RhiannonHoyle)
0357 GMT [Dow Jones] Japan continues to shift investment out of China in favor of Southeast Asia due
to political tensions between Tokyo and Beijing, IHS Global Insight says in a new analysis. Japanese FDI
into China fell 49% in the first half of 2014 compared with a year earlier. Japan began to turn more to
Southeast Asia in 2012 after anti-Japanese riots in China. Total Japanese investment in Southeast
Asian between 2011 and 2013 was $56.3 billion versus $35 billion into China in the same period. It's
not all about political tensions: wages also have been rising in China and Southeast Asia's growing
middle class is a draw, IHS says. (tom.wright@wsj.com)
0348 GMT [Dow Jones] Bank of Japan policy board member Koji Ishida expressed concern that a falloff
in demand for big-ticket items such as houses and cars after the April's sales tax may be prolonged and
a decrease in real wages adjusted for inflation may gradually weigh on the overall consumption. "It is
necessary to keep watching these figures closely," Ishida said in his speech delivered in western Japan.
"A major focus in the near term is whether consumption will return to a recovering track in the

Page109of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.July-September quarter," he says. Those comments by Ishida, who is seen as neutralist among the nine
policy board members, indicate that the central bank may not be fully confident the economy will be able
to weather the headwinds of the sales tax and will embark on a recovery trend in the current
quarter.(tatsuo.ito@wsj.com)
0345 GMT [Dow Jones] China's front-end corporate bond spreads have declined to historical lows,
Nomura says Tuesday. "Liquidity injections and targeted easing so far this year has had a material
impact on corporate bond yields. Corporate bond yields have dropped across the rating spectrum while a
similar narrowing of spreads can be seen relative to Chinese government bonds," it says. It cited
Chinabond data saying both one-year and five-year AA-rated bond yields have fallen from highs of
7.22% and 7.63%, respectively, at the start of the year to 5.38% and 6.53%. The stabilization of GDP
growth and POBC monetary, liquidity easing and relatively well-contained default risks have led to lower
corporate bond yields and the relative spread narrowing between different rated bonds.
(wynne.wang@dowjones.com)

0339 GMT [Dow Jones] The lowest accepted price for two-year JGBs at the 0345 GMT auction result is
likely around 100.06, traders say. The latest issue carries a 0.1% coupon--unchanged from the previous
issue. Traders expect a smooth result as demand for medium-term debt remains strong from investors
such as banks and on support from the Bank of Japan's bond purchase program. Lead September JGB
futures are up 0.02 at 145.99 as of the midday close. The two-year JGB yield is flat at 0.070%.
(eleanor.warnock@wsj.com)
0320 GMT [Dow Jones] Earlier-than-expected removal of home purchase restrictions and credit easing
have sped up a property sales recovery in China. The year-on-year decline in property sales narrowed
significantly in July, according to Soufun. Nearly half of 46 cities that originally imposed restrictions have
officially or unofficially lifted them, says UBS. "The timing of policy loosening has been earlier than in the
last downturn in 2011/12." Nomura expects a pickup in sales in the second half as more cities relax their
restrictions in the coming months. It also says banks have sped up mortgage approvals, with discounts
on mortgage rates for first-home buyers. "Credit loosening should support a sales recovery," Nomura
says. (jacky.wong@wsj.com; Twitter: @jackycwong)

0302 GMT [Dow Jones] One of the vexing questions facing economists keeping a close tab on Bank of
Japan policy is how the central bank will judge in the future whether inflation has become "stable" at
2%--a condition that is supposed to prompt unwinding of stimulus policy. In a speech Tuesday, BOJ
policy-setting board member Koji Ishida said that in making that judgment, he will look at the overall CPI,
the CPI excluding fresh food costs, the CPI excluding imputed rent, the CPI excluding food and energy
costs, and the CPI that discounts items showing either the biggest or smallest price moves. "No single
price indicator is a perfect gauge of the overall price trends in consumer prices," Ishida said. Maybe. But
rather than providing more clarity, his mentioning of various gauges likely only adds to uncertainty over
when the BOJ would scale down its policy for what reasons. (takashi.nakamichi@wsj.com )
0301 GMT [Dow Jones] China's yuan extends its gains against the dollar on Tuesday morning, hitting a
fresh 4-month high. USD/CNY is at 6.1849, after hitting a low high of 6.1833, vs 6.1863 at Monday's
close. "I believe the moves are sustainable in the near-term and they are reflective of improved sentiment
toward China activity and assets (equities included) after a period over the last months where positions
were shaken out," said Patrick Bennett, FX Strategist with CIBC. Traders say the yuan is consolidating
before it tries to break the major resistance at 6.1800. The central parity is set at 6.1615 vs 6.1622
Monday. Offshore, one-year USD/CNY NDFs are up/down at 6.2414/6.2457 from 6.2405/6.2442 late
Monday. (wynne.wang@dowjones.com)

0258 GMT [Dow Jones] Payments in yuan by South Korea have risen more than five times in the year to
June and it is now the eighth biggest user of the Chinese currency--excluding China and Hong Kong,
the Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication, or Swift, says. South Korea's yuan
"payments growth is increasingly driven by customer payments which are a good proxy for trade
settlement," Swift head of payments in the Asian-Pacific region Michael Moon says. South Korea and
China established an offshore yuan clearing center in Seoul in June. The yuan is the seventh most-used
currency for international payments, Swift says. (fiona.law@wsj.com)

0229 GMT [Dow Jones] Plans to extend stock ownership and improve corporate governance at Bank of
Communications (3328.HK) are a shot in the arm for investors betting on further reforms of Chinese
state-owned enterprises, says Barclays. "The key reform area, among other things, could be giving
senior management and employee stock ownership incentive, as well as further to broaden ownership
structure of the bank," the bank says. BOCOM confirmed the plan yesterday, sending its stock up 0.5%
to HK$5.84 in early trading, after rising on Monday by the most since September 2012. The move should
boost market sentiment as the latest example of reform drives gathering steam, Barclays adds: "We
expect the potential positive impacts of such reform to be bigger on small and mid-size SOE banks than

Page110of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.the large peers." The Hang Seng China H-Financials Index is up 0.4% in early trading.
(gregor.hunter@wsj.com; Twitter: @gregorhunter)

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

July 29, 2014 00:08 ET (04:08 GMT)

CO
IN

NS

RE

aanzb : Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Limited
i81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | i81402 :
Commercial Banking
e1202 : Interest Rates | namt : All Market Talk | ndjmt : Dow Jones Market Talk | neqac : Equities Asset
Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nfxacb : Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp :
Forex Asset Class Premium News | nfxmt : Foreign Exchange Market Talk | nrmf : Routine
Market/Financial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types |
nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
jap : Japan | china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries
| dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

PUB Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
AN

Document DJDN000020140729ea7t00098

Page111of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.