Hunt on for partners as five:am taps Asia

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Hunt on for partners as five:am taps Asia

Sue Mitchell
555 words
15 May 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
24
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Australia's fastest-growing dairy foods company, organic yoghurt maker five:am, is looking for
strategic partners as it embarks on a new phase of expansion in Asia.

Five:am founder David Prior is also considering an initial public offering and bringing in external
investors to fund capacity growth and increased distribution locally and overseas.

The company, which has grown sales from $7 million in 2012 to $23 million in 2013 and
$36 million in 2014, hopes to take advantage of strong overseas interest in the Australian and Asian
dairy markets.
Earlier this year Canadian processor Saputo paid $500 million, or 12 times earnings, for
Warrnambool Cheese & Butter, while Parmalat acquired Perth-based Harvey Fresh for $120 million
last month and Hong Kong businessman William Hui snapped up United Dairy Power, Australia's
largest privately owned processor, for $70 million.

Mr Prior has received unsolicited expressions of interest from potential buyers since five:am first
started selling its organic yoghurt range in about 400 Woolworths supermarkets in 2011.
He rejected an offer last year because the company was preparing to stock its products in Coles and
launch its first television marketing campaign while developing plans to expand into the breakfast
aisle with organic granola.
"The large dairy companies in our space are very acquisitive – we've had many knocks on the door,"
Mr Prior told The Australian Financial Review.Local expertise a strategic bonus
While he will not rule out selling the entire business if the right offer comes along, his preference is
for a strategic partnership. "Ideally we'd like to work with a dairy company that has expertise on the
ground in Asia," he said.

"We would bring the production expertise and product development and they could have experience
on the ground in places like China – that would be the most logical partner."
Mr Prior has also been in talks with wealthy Indian and Asian families interested in a stake in the
company. "But it's not just about money – it has to be more strategic than that," he said.
Five:am is now sold on supermarket shelves in Singapore, Malaysia, Hong Kong and Dubai and Mr
Prior has been in talks with a Chinese retailer with 4000 stores. He has also taken a look at the
Indian market, where yoghurt is already a staple food, but says the fragmentation of retailers makes
distribution more difficult.

While many suppliers lament concentration in the Australian grocery market, Mr Prior and five:am's
sales and marketing manager, Sophie Speer, say the scale of major supermarkets Woolworths and
Coles has helped the company achieve rapid growth.

Page101of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."It's a view that's not shared by many people but we see the retailers as our partners," Mr Prior said.
The keen surfer and yoga fan has turned organic yoghurt from a niche product normally sold at a
hefty premium in health food stores into an affordable mainstream product. Sales in 2015 are forecast
to grow at similar rates to recent years and five:am is adding new products, including organic baby
yoghurt.

"Both retailers are committed to putting better quality product on the shelves and we tapped into that
journey quite early," he said. "We took them a product they wanted."

IN
RE
PUB
AN

i6560011 : Shopping Malls/Superstores | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i656 : Mixed Retailing | iretail : Retail
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140514ea5f0002b

Page102of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.