DATAROOM

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
DATAROOM

Edited by Bridget Carter and Gretchen Friemann
1,112 words
21 November 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
20
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Archer releases investors from fund ARCHER Capital, one of the country’s top private equity firms,
has taken the radical step of releasing investors from $300 million in commitments to its $1.5 billion
fund, amid persistently tough conditions in the leveraged buyout market.

Archer raised its fifth fund in 2012 but has struggled to deploy the capital and decided in April last year
to strike a deal with its investors, or limited partners, to unlock the money.

Under the agreement the vehicle was shrunk to $1.2bn with an option to retain it at the original level of
$1.5bn. However, that option has now lapsed, leaving Archer overseeing a far smaller fund.

Founder and partner Peter Wiggs confirmed the move to The Australian and said Archer was “putting
the interests of its LPs first, as always”.

While the releasing of commitments is virtually unprecedented in Australia, several buyout firms in the
US have been forced into similar restructuring strategies as investor tolerance for idle capital wears
thin in the post-crisis era. During the LBO boom years, private equiteers had the luxury of sitting on
dry powder in colossal funds while still collecting 1.5 to 2 per cent in management fees.

Those days are long gone. Yet even in this period of greater scrutiny, few firms countenance a fund
restructure since the costs of running a private equity firm and the expenses borne in scouring the
market for deals are often prohibitively expensive.

Archer’s decision, though, is expected to win the goodwill of its investors. While many of its LPs are
based offshore, the firm has also drawn sizeable allocations from several superannuation funds,
despite that industry’s retreat from private equity in recent years. Unisuper and Victorian Funds
Management Corp have both frozen new commitments to the sector while others are reducing the
private equity managers to whom they extend money.

But the approbation of its investors may not be the only boon from Archer’s restructure.
Private equity firms typically have to invest 75 per cent of a fund’s capital before they can tap
investors for more cash, so a smaller vehicle will also propel the firm towards the trigger point for a
fresh fund raise.

According to sources, Archer has deployed about $400m of Fund V, accumulating investments such
as baggage handler Aero-Care, which it bought from Next Capital for close to $200m.

Yet while the smaller deals have been flowing at a brisk pace, the large-scale LBOs are few and far
between. A potential $3.4bn bid for wine-producer Treasury Wine Estates failed to gain traction
despite interest from TPG and KKR.
Yellow fever, Kiwi style PLATINUM Equity, the US buyout firm that snapped up Telstra's yellow
pages business Sensis earlier this year, is mulling another strike at the same industry as it circles
New Zealand's yellow pages.

Page61of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.News of Platinum's latest potential foray comes amid growing speculation the firm intends to open an
office in Australia once it achieves a larger portfolio.

Few though could have predicted it would chase another investment in a sector that continues to
amass casualties as publishers navigate a treacherous course from print to online.
New Zealand's yellow pages has drafted in Macquarie Group to advise it on the mooted sale. But like
its global peers, price expectations have fallen off a cliff.
In 2005, Sensis, publisher of the Yellow and White pages, was valued at $12 billion. Platinum
hoovered up a 70 per cent stake in January for $454 million.
It's a similar story at NZ yellow pages, now in the hands of a clutch of hedge funds. In 2007, it sold for
about $2.1bn. Many expect any sale to fetch less than $400m.

But Platinum is no stranger to the media - last year it closed its third successive buyout fund, worth
$US3.75bn

Asians eye Devine SINGAPORE-BASED City Developments is believed to be closing in on the
Leighton Holdingsbacked residential developer Devine.
The Brisbane-based company is almost half-owned by construction giant Leighton. Leighton flagged
its intention to exit its stake as part of a wider selldown of its assets and the entire business was
subsequently placed on the market through investment bank Goldman Sachs.

While the price being offered by City Developments is unclear, it is understood its offer was
substantially higher than the one from its rival suitor, Proprium Capital Partners, an entity controlled by
Morgan Stanley's real estate arm.
Devine was expected to sell for close to 10 per cent below the company's net tangible assets of $245
million.
City Developments is also circling Leighton Properties, which is up for sale through Bank of America
Merrill Lynch and has been named as the frontrunner to secure the subsidiary.
The business, which has a $7bn development pipeline, is mooted to sell for about $500m.

Meanwhile, an agreement could be in the offing between Leighton, which is almost 70 per cent
controlled by German groupHochtief, and China Communications Construction Company,
surrounding the sales process for contractor John Holland. It is understood rival bidder Samsung has
left the contest, leaving CCCC as the only contender
Pastoral guessing game TERRA Firma may be entertaining potential buyers for a partial stake in
Australia's largest privately owned beef producer, Consolidated Pastoral Company, creating a
guessing game among spectators as to the likely suitors.
But perhaps a more interesting question is what exactly is Consolidated Pastoral looking to buy.

One suggestion surrounding the potential targets on its list could be Macquarie Pastoral.

The fund, one of Australia's largest landholders, is backed by the asset management arm of the Bill
and Melinda Gates Foundation.

Dutch pension fund APG is also an investor.

It has been fancied as a potential target for Consolidated Pastoral for some time, as speculation
mounts that moves could be afoot to unseat Macquarie as manager if the fund's performance does not
improve.

Macquarie and Consolidated Pastoral declined to comment.

A move by Terra Firma to introduce a part-owner for Consolidated Pastoral is thought to signal
attempts to increase its firepower for a potential acquisition.
The group has Barclays as an adviser and has been receiving expressions of interest for both local
and offshore groups.

Consolidate Pastoral earlier this month told The Australian it was pursuing partnership opportunities in
China and Indonesia, and in new markets such as Vietnam, and was also focused on several

Page62of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.potential land acquisitions in northern Australia.The company is backed by private equity group
Terra Firma, which purchased it from the Packer family in 2009.

NS

RE
PUB
AN

clbo : Leveraged Buyouts | c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cactio
: Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141120eabl0000y

Page63of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.