Bans and soaring prices help BHP to exit nickel

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Bans and soaring prices help BHP to exit nickel

BARRY FITZGERALD, COMMODITIES
876 words
19 May 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
18
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

BHP Billiton chief executive Andrew Mackenzie would do well to send Indonesia’s political leadership a
note of thanks for making BHP’s well-baked plans to quit its historic West Australian nickel operations
(Nickel West) much easier to achieve.
Thanks to Indonesia’s doggedness in pursuing a value-add dividend for its 250 million people by
compelling further processing of nickel ores into higher value products, the nickel price is on fire.

The price has surged 50 per cent since the start of the year to $US18,750 a tonne, bringing much
needed relief to an industry in which nearly all the producers have struggled to make money in recent
years, including Nickel West. What is more, there has been a conga line of big name commodity
forecasters predicting that nickel prices will move higher still.

Macquarie’s commodities desk yesterday predicted that nickel would go from being the
worst-performing to the best-performing of the metals. It has raised its price forecast for 2014 by 25 per
cent to $US19,911 a tonne — nickel averaged $US15,000 a tonne last year — and tips the price could
surge to as much as $US38,000 a tonne in 2019.

Deutsche Bank is also bullish, raising its 2015 price target by 21 per cent to $US20,625 a tonne and its
2017 price forecast by 64 per cent to $US27,000 a tonne. The common theme is the impact of the
Indonesian export ban on price expectations.

Indonesia accounts for more than 25 per cent of the world’s production of the stainless steel-making
ingredient and since January this year the country has banned exports of nickel ores grading less than
4 per cent nickel.

That essentially means the export of unprocessed laterite nickel ores has been stopped in its tracks,
much to the surprise of analysts who had assumed the dent it would cause to GDP would see the ban
quickly reversed. But Indonesia seems intent on capturing the value-add, job creation, and investment
that would come from the creation of a much bigger presence in the downstream nickel processing
industry.

Downstream processing takes a low-value product and transforms it into higher value intermediate
products, or the finished metal product.

Glencore Xstrata — one of the world’s biggest nickel producers and traders, which has previously said
it is interested in buying Nickel West — has estimated that in 2012, Indonesia shipped nickel ores with
an inherent nickel value of $US9 billion but for which the export revenue was only $US1.5bn.
The fact that the Indonesian ban is sticking has thrown the Chinese pig iron nickel industry — a
relatively low-price source of nickel and iron for stainless steel mills — into a spin because it was built
on the previously abundant supplies of nickel ores from Indonesia.

Page231of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The upshot is that an explosion in the nickel price is now widely tipped. That in itself is nothing new for
a metal which is traditionally the most volatile of the base metals due to global annual demand being
small: about two million tonnes annually.

When it spikes, it tends to spike hard. Local investors know that all too well, with the Poseidon nickel
boom of late 1960s and early 1970s deeply embedded in the psyche of the market.

There have numerous booms and busts for the nickel industry ever since, usually built around supply
shortages emerging from under-investment in times of severe price weakness, leading to supply
shortages from over-investment during periods of high prices.

This time it’s different because of the wildcard played by Indonesia. Without Indonesia sticking to the
export ban, there was expected to be an ongoing supply surplus, one caused by investment in new
capacity that came from nickel’s last price surge to an average of $US37,200 a tonne in 2007.

That broad expectation was reflected in nickel’s miserable price performance in recent years. During
that downtime, BHP would have dearly loved to have quit its Nickel West investment but there were no
buyers.

While Nickel West is Australia’s biggest nickel producer at 100,000 tonnes a year and traces its origins
to the 1960s, nickel discoveries around Kambalda by Western Mining (acquired by BHP in 2005) sit
outside CEO Andrew Mackenzie’s four “pillars’’ strategy of focusing on world-class assets in iron ore,
copper, petroleum and coal.
The reversal of nickel’s outlook, courtesy of the Indonesian ban, makes the trade sale of Nickel West
much easier. To that end, BHP put its 1800 Nickel West workers on notice this week that a bunch of
potential buyers would soon be seen visiting the mines, smelters and refineries with a view to lobbing a
bid.

BHP would have struggled to give the business away a couple of years ago due to nickel’s weakness,
Nickel West’s loss-making status, and the legacy environmental issues that come with ageing smelters
and refineries.

But now Nickel West is variously valued at $500m-$2bn.The lower price reflects doubts about
Indonesia’s ban sticking while the higher price reflects the expectation that it will, carrying nickel prices
sharply higher in the process.

CO
IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | imet : Mining/Quarrying | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources
mnonfr : Non-ferrous Metals | c312 : External Markets | mnickl : Nickel Markets | c411 : Management
Moves | reqrmm : Suggested Reading Metals/Mining | c31 : Marketing | c41 : Management Issues |
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | m14 : Commodity Markets | m142 : Metals Markets | mcat :
Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E
Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | redit :
Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
indon : Indonesia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140518ea5j0004f

Page232of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.