BRIGHT SIDE OF CHINA FACTOR

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

BRIGHT SIDE OF CHINA FACTOR

1,018 words
21 December 2014
Sunday Star-Times
SUNSTT
18
English
© 2014 Fairfax New Zealand Limited. All Rights Reserved.

Two Chinese-born Kiwis in the property industry talk to Catherine Harris about why Chinese
investment is a bonus for New Zealand.

--------------------

NEW ZEALAND will benefit from the capital Chinese are bringing into the country to fund more
housing and commercial property projects, two Chinese-born property players say.

"From my point of view, I see it as an opportunity for New Zealand," says Sky Cai, a 30-year- old
entrepreneur who manages the Library Lane apartment project in Albany. "We've got a fast-growing
population, we need enough housing to satisfy people."
Cai came to New Zealand at 17. The Library Lane project, a $100 million apartment complex on
Auckland's North Shore, is his baby, backed by Kiwi and Chinese investors.

He expects the first stage of 130 apartments will get under way in February next year, with design and
construction by Brown Day Group Architects and Ebert Construction.
So far around 80 units have been sold off the plans, to a range of students, empty nesters, first-home
buyers and migrants.
The average apartment takes up 55 square metres and costs $440,000.
Cai acknowledges that other Chinese-born people in the property industry like to keep a low profile.

"I think that's the culture. It confuses me as well at times."
But aware that Chinese have borne at least some of the blame for Auckland's soaring property
prices, he thinks Kiwis should see the investment they bring - especially for development - as a
positive.

After all, the only way to keep house prices stable is to stem the demand, he says.

But he warns that the money invested here should be here for the long-term, not "hot money".

"Because that's easy come, easy go. We need some real investment here."

Cai counts himself as a New Zealander, having been in the country for 14 years. He came as a fifth
former to study in Christchurch and went on to Lincoln for a commerce degree.

After graduating he built up an import-export business, becoming one of GrabOne's biggest suppliers.
He also has shares in a construction company and has a couple of other projects on the go, including
a terraced housing and apartment project on Albany highway and a Birkenhead sub- division.

With Massey University nearby and shopping centres not far away, Cai has high hopes for Albany.

"I believe it will be a second Takapuna," he says.

Page64of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Another Chinese voice in the property industry is Sam Yin, the founder of Chinese-language
property website hougarden.com.
Hougarden.com gets about 180,000 unique site visits a month, largely from Chinese people or
Chinese-speaking New Zealanders, but also some from Singapore, Hong Kong and Malaysia.
Many of these people cannot access New Zealand websites because of Chinese firewalls, a problem
Hougarden.com does not have because it has a server in China.

It also serves in an advisory role, putting customers in touch with lawyers, immigration consultants and
brokers. Chinese people prefer relationships to bare facts and figures, Yin says.
Visitors to his site fall into four camps, the largest consisting of people looking to emigrate to New
Zealand, he says.

They are followed by students whose parents are shopping for their accommodation, and permanent
residents who have left New Zealand because of lack of job or business opportunities but who now
want to return for a better family life.
However, Yin is also seeing a rising number of Chinese-born large project property investors, who
use New Zealand architects and builders and target the Kiwi market.

He cites Library Lane, Albany's Hemisphere Apartments, some of the projects in Hobsonville and the
48-apartment Parkview Residences development on Eden Terrace as examples.
More widely, Chinese families are also behind the revamp of Auckland's St James and several other
CBD building sites in recent months.
"About 50 per cent of apartments [being sold] off plans in Auckland are actually owned by Chinese
developers," Yin says.

These people are attracting attention, "but they are making a contribution to the New Zealand
economy".
Many people say Chinese push up the price of residential housing.

"For some people that is right because you're buying a freehold section and also there is no capital
gains tax, and also a lot of Chinese do share the treasure of New Zealand, like fresh air, the food.
They do want to come to New Zealand for living.

"So they are willing to pay a little bit more than the market price, because they do have those
advantages."
However, would-be developers from China struggle with the cost of land and building supplies here,
which is why Australia, Canada and the United States have been preferred destinations.

Yin, who has been in New Zealand since he was 19, says he can see both sides of the investment
debate.
"Everything has double sides . . . Because the economy is growing, that makes the property industry
always a very popular topic."
He concedes some Kiwis do worry because they can't afford property now.
"In the North Shore if you don't have one million, you couldn't really buy a property now. But with a lot
of funding from China and other countries, that will make the whole economy grow, and bring more
business opportunities into the country," he says.

"But maybe for the short-term, it will hurt some people's interests."
Fears that Chinese developers will bring in their own labour are unfounded, as it is quite difficult to do
so, he says.
Similarly, Chinese building materials imported still have to meet New Zealand standards.

Before starting Hougarden in 2012, Yin graduated from Auckland University and worked as an
accountant and for a software development company.

His own story is a common one: he stayed after graduating because of his friends, got married and his
children were born here.

Page65of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."The reason I stay is because I have been here 15 years and when I go back to China . . . it's a little
bit different because of too much time overseas."

IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

i323 : Textile Machinery Manufacturing | i5010022 : Residential Building Construction | i32 : Machinery
| i501 : Building Construction | iconst : Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction | iindstrls :
Industrial Goods
ereal : Real Estate Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News
nz : New Zealand | china : China | auckl : Auckland | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific |
asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater
China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern
Asia
Fairfax New Zealand Limited
Document SUNSTT0020141220eacl0002o

Page66of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.