Formula for success

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Formula for success

434 words
26 November 2014
The Gympie Times
APNGYT
Main
5
English
Copyright 2014 APN Newspapers Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved

(Gina Rinehart) believes in this project and revitalisation of the dairy industry

Shelley StrachanDEPUTY EDITORshelley.strachan@gympietimes.com

Shelley Strachan

DEPUTY EDITOR

shelley.strachan@gympietimes.com
AUSTRALIAN billionaireGina Rinehart’s Hancock Prospecting owns more than 90% of Hope Dairies,
a spokesman for Mrs Rinehart confirmed this week.
The woman who picked the mining boom by betting on iron ore at a time when few realised what was
about to happen in China, is now putting her money on powdered milk.
Hope Dairies has signed a Memorandum of Understanding to invest $500 million in a baby formula
processing plant in the Mary Valley and 5000ha of farmland in the South Burnett.
The 30,000 tonnes of powdered milk it wants to start producing in 2016 will be exported to China.
About a quarter of the milk it needs will be drawn from local dairy farms.

Hancock Prospecting spokesman Jason Morrisson said yesterday the project was a substantial
investment for Mrs Rinehart.
“Mrs Rinehart’s company actually owns over 90% of Hope Dairies,” he said.

“The remaining part of (Hope Dairies) is held by the management who have been very actively
involved in the project for most of this year.

“That may change but this is now, and will be overwhelmingly, a majority Australian-owned and
controlled company.”

Mr Morrison also said the Hope Dairies had already bought a “significant number of properties” in the
South Burnett.

“We’ve appreciated such strong support and positivity for this project,” he said.

“Many in the community are encouraged that an Australian like Gina Rinehart is driving this.

“She is a proud Australian who invests in this country while many people are pulling out or winding
back.
“She believes in this project and the revitalisation of the Queensland dairy industry.”

Page243of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Member for Gympie David Gibson said this week Hope Dairies would purchase the 800ha property
near the intersection of the Mary Valley Link Road and the Bruce Hwy for the processing plant from
the State Government “at market rates”.

“The focus of the Mary Valley Economic Development Strategy is to facilitate improvement in the local
economy, support the community and create new jobs and productive enterprises,” he said.

“The Newman government has also made a commitment to double agricultural production by 2040
and the proposal from Hope Dairy will assist in achieving those objectives.
“The Queensland government is therefore looking to a sale of land in the Mary Valley for the purpose
of a spray drying plant for Hope Dairy.”

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

hkpros : Hancock Prospecting Pty. Ltd.
i010010502 : Dairy Cattle Farming | i0 : Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | i0100105 : Cattle Farming |
ilsfarm : Livestock Farming | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying
gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
APN Newspapers Pty Ltd
Document APNGYT0020141125eabq000e9

Search Summary

Text

Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found
Timestamp

((chin* or hong kong)) and (
( (residential or site or commercial) and (casino resort or island or hotel or apartment
or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company or board or entitys) and
(transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) )
or
( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron or lead
or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or stake or
equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or firm or
company))
or
( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or equity
or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group or firm or
board) and (million* or billion* or B or M))
)
not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall Street
or Forex or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex)
and re=austr
01/09/2014 to 31/12/2014
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
2,847
28 August 2018 22:53

Page244of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.