Dire warning of cost of closing coal complex; Union says closure of Integra coal complex could cost $63 million

HD

Dire warning of cost of closing coal complex; Union says closure of Integra coal complex could
cost $63 million
BY
Anonymous
WC 310 words
PD
1 July 2014
SN
Mining Engineering
SC
QQMNG
PG
21
VOL Volume 66; Issue 7; ISSN:00265187
LA
CY
LP

English
© 2014 Mining Engineering. Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning. All rights Reserved.

AFTER ANNOUNCING its plans to close the Integra coal complex in Australia's Hunter Valley, Australia's
Construction, Forestry, Mining and Energy Union (CFMEU) said Vale could face a $63-million bill,
Australian Mining reported.
AFTER ANNOUNCING its plans to close the Integra coal complex in Australia's Hunter Valley, Australia's
Construction, Forestry, Mining and Energy Union (CFMEU) said Vale could face a $63-million bill,
Australian Mining reported.

Vale had previously announced that the Integra coal complex was no longer economically viable and
asked workers to stay at home on full pay. About 500 workers at the complex, which includes the
Camberwell openpit and Glennies Creek underground mine, could lose their jobs.

The CFMEU's Peter Jordan said the closure of the mines will prove costly for Vale as it will be forced to
pay millions in cancelled contracts at the site as well as for port and rail contracts, The Singleton Argus
reported.
"They informed us they will be cancelling a contract to cut coal and paying the $33 million dollar penalty
that goes with this cancellation," Jordan said.

"In addition, they have not been relieved of their 'take or pay' obligations."
Jordan said this port and rail access amounts to a further $30 million dollars a year.
"The fact the company appears to be throwing away around $60 million dollars is concerning and adds
credibility to the rumor that the mine has been sold.
"We are hearing reports that the opencut mine has been sold to a Chinese company, the Shenhua
Group, which is involved in the Watermark project near Gunnedah, and the closure is just about changing
the workforce arrangements."
However Jordan conceded that Vale has strongly denied a sale of the operation has occurred.

cufymu : Construction, Forestry, Mining and Energy Union | cvrd : Vale S.A.
i111 : Coal Mining | i1 : Energy | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i211 :
Metal Ore Mining | i2111 : Iron Ore Mining
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

TD

CO
IN

NS
RE
IPD Trade Journals
PUB Society for Mining, Metallurgy, and Exploration, Inc.
AN

Document QQMNG00020161007ea71000lr

Page95of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.