Lavender-Filled Teddy Bears From Tasmania Are a Big Hit in China ; Maker of 'Bobbie Bear' Can't Keep Up With Demand; Tapping the 'Psyche of 30-Year-Old Chinese Ladies'

SE
HD

BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
ED
LA
CY
LP

TD

Page One
Lavender-Filled Teddy Bears From Tasmania Are a Big Hit in China; Maker of 'Bobbie Bear' Can't
Keep Up With Demand; Tapping the 'Psyche of 30-Year-Old Chinese Ladies'
Dinny McMahon
1,135 words
10 April 2014
08:32
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

NABOWLA, Tasmania—Starting weeks before Christmas, Robert Ravens had to ration sales of teddy
bears to people visiting his lavender farm in this remote corner of Australia to one per customer.
Demand was so fierce that as soon as each furry purple Bobbie Bear shell was stuffed with a mixture of
lavender and wheat, it was rushed straight to the gift store.

Mr. Ravens had already stopped shipping overseas and interstate. He had stopped taking Internet
orders. His small staff at Bridestowe Lavender Estate couldn't keep up with demand coming almost
solely from one place: China.

"We're not aiming to dominate the world of fluffy bears. Our business is fine lavender," said Mr.
Ravens. "But somehow we've tapped the cultural psyche of 30-year-old Chinese ladies."
The rush on Bobbie Bears is what happens when suddenly insatiable Chinese demand meets limited
supply. Mr. Ravens said the farm—where a spacious gift shop overlooks trim rows of lavender, an
hour's drive through quiet farmland from the closest airport—has seen "near riot" conditions since the
rationing began. The annual number of visitors has nearly tripled in six years to 60,000 in 2013.
Wealthy Chinese have bid up the price of investment assets in recent years from property in
Vancouver to French Bordeaux and modern art. As prosperity in China spreads, Chinese are doing the
same with consumer goods.
Voracious demand from Chinese tourists for luxury goods to give as gifts or to sell at a markup back
home often threatens to clear the shelves of major brands in France. Gucci stores in Paris sometimes
limit the number of bags customers can buy per passport to ensure supply.
Karicare, a brand of milk powder made from New Zealand goats' milk that sells in Australia and New
Zealand, has quadrupled production to 20,000 tons over the last three years to meet demand from
Chinese consumers, some of whom are reselling online in China. Even that might not be enough.
The company, a unit of GroupDanone, says on its website that due to "unprecedented demand" it
cannot find enough high quality goats milk.
The craze for Bobbie the teddy bear has come with all the attendant effects of a China boom.

Bridestowe sells Bobbie for about $48.50 or about 300 yuan, up from about $23 five years ago, after
raising the price five times. In China, online retailers currently sell them for about 400 yuan, up from
300 only a few months ago. But, Mr. Ravens said, many are knockoffs; his authorized distributor
estimates 100,000 fakes have been sold online. Three online retailers reached in China all said they
were selling authentic Bobbie Bears.

The price of lavender in Australia is also rising, selling for $55 to $90 per kilogram, up from less than
$40 a year ago, according to Jean Sargeant, president of the Australian Lavender Growers Association.

Page27of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."I've had three lots of Chinese here over the picking season," said Ms. Sargeant. "One guy said 'I'll buy
the entire crop.' "
Bobbie Bears have tapped into Chinese consumers' desire for peace of mind after recurring food and
product safety scandals at home.
"Anything natural from somewhere with blue skies and clean air and water is dreamy for Chinese
consumers," said Chen Huan, a 28-year-old who works for a public-relations firm in Shanghai. She
bought four bears—three as gifts—from a friend.
The outside of the bear itself is made in southern China. What consumers want is stuffing: lavender
grown in Tasmania, without pesticides or herbicides, and locally-grown wheat, which warms up when
microwaved so that the bear also works as a heat pack.
Mr. Ravens, who used to be chief executive of a chemicals company, and his wife Jennifer bought the
92-year-old farm in 2007 as a retirement project. They started making teddy bears as a way to use the
shed-loads of dried lavender that came with the farm. Soon they developed the idea of selling the bears
to market the farm for tourism. Seeing the bear was popular among Chinese tourists to the farm, they
got a store near Chinatown in Sydney to stock them. Two years ago they started marketing them in
Hong Kong with the help of a celebrity chef from there.
Demand in mainland China took off in July. A 26-year-old Chinese celebrity famous for dating a Hong
Kong television personality—and whose ex-boyfriend is a distributor of Bobbie in China—posted a
photo of herself with the bear on social media. "The ideal bedtime companion for a cold Shanghai
night," Zhang Xinyu told her 8.7 million followers on Weibo, a microblogging site.

Bridestowe stuffed 30,000 bears last year—up from 3,500 in 2011 and 7,500 in 2012—and expects to
double production this year, using a full ton of lavender for stuffing, rather than for aromatic oils, its
traditional use.
Nancy Li, a tour guide from the southern Chinese city of Shenzhen, led a group of middle-aged
Chinese men around Tasmania in late January. She said that she intended to buy 60 bears for family
and friends from Bridestowe, but decided not to visit when she heard she could only buy one.

Mr. Ravens said people regularly try to get around the bear-buying restriction. Some people hire
students to enter and leave the Bridestowe farm multiple times a day, repeatedly buying an admission
ticket of about $14 that entitles them to the right to buy a bear, he said. Some tour guides will buy the
admission tickets but then not hand them over to the group, instead hoarding the bears for themselves,
he said.
While at the farm, a middle-aged Chinese academic approached this reporter to try to buy an
additional bear.
Mr. Ravens said people often get angry when they learn they can only buy one bear. "The staff are
always on edge. Tempers get frayed," he said. "Our staff don't cope so well" with the animosity.

With this year's lavender crop now in, Mr. Ravens has resumed selling the bears wholesale again to
some stores. He is also fighting back against the counterfeiters, with each Bobbie coming with an
identification tag that buyers can verify on line.

As far as Mr. Ravens is concerned, one sniff is enough to determine authenticity. "The Bridestowe
lavender is a global classic. It's unmatched. It's rich and deep," he said. "You can tell a fake from the
smell."

Yang Jie and Laurie Burkitt contributed to this article.

IN
NS
RE

IPD
PUB
AN

i0 : Agriculture
npag : Page-One Stories | ncat : Content Types
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | tasman : Tasmania
A-hed
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document WSJO000020140410ea49000p3

Page28of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.