Blockbuster deals drive up CBRE revenue

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Blockbuster deals drive up CBRE revenue

Nick Lenaghan
601 words
7 February 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
34
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

A surge in big commercial property deals helped drive CBRE's gross revenue 22 per cent higher in
its Pacific business in the final quarter last year.
Filing its annual global results in New York this week, the listed commercial agency reported 10 per
cent growth in global revenue to $US7.2 billion ($8 billion).

But CBRE's global net income rose only slightly to $US316.5 million after taking a $US74.3 million
impairment in its European business.

In the fourth quarter of 2013, CBRE's Europe, Middle East and Africa segment delivered the
strongest revenue growth. Britain was especially strong, with 28 per cent growth in revenue.

The Americas, CBRE's largest business area, posted a 9 per cent increase in revenue, as leasing
picked up.

CBRE's Asia-Pacific division posted a 14 per cent rise in revenue, although that was tempered by
adverse currency effects for the US-based company.

In Australia, CBRE's local chief Tom Southern said the agency's capital markets business had one of
its strongest quarters since the global financial crisis.

Among the blockbuster deals in the previous quarter handled by the CBRE team were the
$413.19 million pre-purchase of the 177 Pacific Highway office development in North Sydney by
Singapore's Suntec REIT, and the $278.7 million sale of the Northpoint office tower in North Sydney
to Cromwell Property Group.

"With the election behind us, business confidence as well as underlying fundamentals in both the
commercial and residential markets have improved," Mr Southern said.
Mr Southern said commercial property deals in the Australian market took off in the final quarter.
Total commercial sales – all CBRE and non-CBRE transactions of retail, office and industrial
property valued at more than $5 million – were up 94 per cent on the corresponding period in 2012,
according to CBRE research.

"For full-year 2013, sales reached a record $24 billion, up a strong 70 per cent on the prior 12-month
period," he said.

Offshore investors played a big part, seizing $2.1 billion in assets, mostly office buildings, in the final
quarter. That represents the highest quarterly purchase figure in the Australian market by foreign
buyers.

Page38of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mr Southern said retail sales, approvals for new houses and asset prices had all improved in the
past three to six months, most likely in a delayed response to last year's interest rate cuts.
"This has underpinned an improvement in fundamentals in most of the commercial and residential
markets, although we do expect the office rental market to remain under some pressure in the early
half of this year until business confidence improves further," he said.

"That being said, there have been some positive market signals, with our office services teams in
Perth, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane all recording increased activity in the latter stages of the
fourth quarter."
Mr Southern said the agency's retail, industrial and residential valuations had all performed strongly
in 2013.
CBRE's residential projects division team finished the year with major launches, including the
Greenland Centre in the Sydney CBD.
More than $300 million in apartments were sold off the plan in the first stage of the Chinese
developer Greenland's project.

"Some 4000 inquiries were fielded by CBRE in the four to five weeks leading up to the launch, in an
indication of the current strength in the Sydney apartment market," Mr Southern said.

Key points Asia-Pacific unit delivers 22pc gross revenue gain after post-election bounce. Offshore
investors buy $2.1bn of assets in December quarter.

coldb : CBRE Group, Inc.
ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | i8500021 :
Office Real Estate | icireal : Commercial/Industrial Real Estate
c182 : Asset Transactions | ereal : Real Estate Markets | c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial
News | c15 : Performance | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | e11 : Economic
Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin
: FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New
South Wales
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140206ea2700062

CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page39of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.