Goodman Fielder board backs Asian buyers' A$1.37 bln offer

HD
BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Goodman Fielderboard backs Asian buyers' A$1.37 bln offer

Paul McBeth
377 words
19 May 2014
07:00
BusinessDesk
BUSWNZ
English
Copyright 2014. Content Ltd.

Goodman Fielderboard backs Asian buyers' A$1.37 billion takeover bid
May 19 (BusinessDesk) - The board of Goodman Fielder will unanimously back a A$1.37 billion
takeover bid by Singapore-based Wilmar International and Hong Kong-listed investment firm First
Pacific Co in the absence of a better offer.

Wilmar, the world's biggest palm oil processor, and First Pacific will pay 70 Australian cents a share to
take over the Australasian food ingredients maker, sweetening an earlier bid of 65 cents a share. On
Friday, Goodman's board said it would unanimously recommend the bid in the absence of a superior
proposal, and granted due diligence. The dual listed shares were halted on Friday at 66.5 Australian
cents on the ASX, and 74 cents on the NZX.
"Since the initial approach from Wilmar and First Pacific, the board has been focused on generating
the best outcome which maximised value for our shareholders," Goodman chair Steve Gregg said in a
statement to the ASX. "We believe this revised proposal also demonstrates the strength of our
underlying business and brands but also the opportunity to leverage these assets to grow the
business across the Asian region."
The Asian companies are seeking to buy Goodman through a scheme of arrangement, meaning they
only need 75 percent support to take control rather than the 90 percent target for a hostile takeover.
They also snared lock-up agreements for a further 4.8 percent in making their increased bid.
Goodman's board knocked back the earlier offer as opportunistic and materially undervaluing the
company.
Wilmar bought a 10 percent stake in Goodman in 2012, and registered interest in the food ingredients
maker's assets which were up for sale at the time.

In February, Goodman forecast normalised annual earnings to be "broadly in line" with the previous
year's A$185.6 million as soaring milk prices and intense competition in baking goods eroded
profitability.
The maker of household brands including Vogel's bread, Meadowfresh milk and yoghurt, and
Meadowlea butter and margarine has been cost cutting, restructuring and divesting over the past three
years, to focus on its core brands and reduce debt.

(BusinessDesk)

CO
IN
NS

fdgl : Goodman Fielder Ltd
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp : Consumer Goods
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cacqu : Acquisitions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter

Page235of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE
PUB
AN

nz : New Zealand | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Content Ltd
Document BUSWNZ0020140519ea5i00001

Page236of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.