Apache goes on the warpath

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Apache goes on the warpath

Matt Chambers, Litigation
549 words
28 August 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
17
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Seven sued over Apache buy Seven Group Holdings is being sued over the $US63.7 million ($68m)
purchase of some of US oil company Apache’s best Texas ground, as Seven chief Don Voelte
widens his push into the oil and gas sector beyond Australia.

The Kerry Stokes-controlled media and resources conglomerate yesterday revealed it had
broadened the oil and gas push that began with its controversial takeover of Nexus Energy.

But the previously undisclosed acquisition of a non-operating stake in the booming US onshore oil
sector has been clouded by a legal challenge from Apache, the field’s operator.
Seven Group, which is still in the process of buying Nexus, now has its first energy asset, after
buying an 11 per cent stake in Apache’s onshore Bivins Ranch ground from a minority partner in
June.

“We have acquired a direct interest in an operated oilfield in the United States to supplement the
long-dated reserves we hope to gain via the acquisition of Nexus,” said Mr Stokes, who owns 68 per
cent and is executive chairman of Seven.

Apache is seeking damages from Seven Group, which it claims “wilfully and intentionally interfered”
with Apache’s rights to pre-emptively acquire the stake at a higher price of $US65m, and the seller
NextEra Energy, according to a report by US legal news service Law360.

In its annual report, Seven Group said the suit was for “tortious interference” by Seven and breach of
contract by NextEra Energy.

“The group believes the action to be without merit and is defending its position,” Seven Group said.
Seven Group could be dealing with legal action on both of its attempted moves into oil and gas if
legal threats from Nexus shareholders flagged in an administrator’s report this month translate into
action.
Seven Group’s $191m purchase of Nexus from administrators is expected to take up to three
months as it waits for Australian Securities & Investments Commission approval, court approval and
settlement of a Nexus legal claim.

“We look forward to a resolution of the situation,” Seven Group chief operating officer Ryan Stokes
said yesterday.
Seven Group, whose assets include the WesTrac mining equipment business and a 35 per cent
stake in Seven West Media, said full-year net profit slumped 37 per cent to $251.8m as the mining
sector continued to cut costs, production and expansions.
“As commodity prices like iron ore remain under pressure, the miners are very focused on reducing
or deferring costs,” Mr Voelte said.

Page26of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“There is very limited demand for new equipment at this time, even though record coal and iron ore
export volumes will have to support service, parts, and ultimately lead to capital replacements.” The
company paid a 20c-a-share final dividend, unchanged from last year and representing a $41m
payout to Kerry Stokes.

The full-year dividend was double this.
Seven Group said the outlook for its WesTrac business in Australia and China was flat or declining
while its Coates Hire business was expected to strengthen slightly.Group underlying earnings before
interest and tax were expected to be flat at about $374.4m (down 40 per cent from 2012-13), subject
to no further deterioration in market conditions.

entity : Nexus Energy Ltd | tvaus : Seven Group Holdings Ltd. | apche : Apache Corp
i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1 : Energy | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | i97411 :
Broadcasting | i9741102 : Television Broadcasting | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction | imed :
Media/Entertainment
c18 : Ownership Changes | cacqu : Acquisitions | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140827ea8s0002y

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page27of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.