Grupo Financiero Santander Mexico, S.A. B . de C.V. Grupo Financiero Santander Mexico Announces That Its Parent Company , Banco Santander, S.A. Has Signed An Alliance With A Group Led By Warburg Pincus To Create A Leader In The Custody Business

HD

WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Grupo Financiero Santander Mexico, S.A.B. de C.V. Grupo Financiero Santander Mexico
Announces That Its Parent Company, Banco Santander, S.A. Has Signed An Alliance With A
Group Led By Warburg Pincus To Create A Leader In The Custody Business
1,132 words
1 July 2014
China Weekly News
CHWKNW
175
English
© Copyright 2014 Chemicals & Chemistry via NewsRx.com

2014 JUL 1 (VerticalNews) -- By a News Reporter-Staff News Editor at China Weekly News -- Grupo
Financiero Santander Mexico, S.A.B. de C.V. (BMV: SANMEX; NYSE: BSMX) ("Santander Mexico"), one
of the leading financial groups in Mexico, announced that its parent company, Banco Santander, S.A.
("Santander") has entered into a definitive agreement with FINESP Holdings II B.V, an affiliate of
Warburg Pincus, a leading global private equity firm focused on growth investing, to create a leader in
the custody business.

Under the terms of the agreement, which is conditional upon legal and regulatory approvals, the group
which will also include Temasek, a Singapore based investment company, will acquire a 50% stake in
Santander's current custody operations in Spain, Mexico and Brazil. The remaining 50% will be owned
by Santander. The transaction is expected to close in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Santander is a leading custody provider in Spain, Brazil and Mexico, with EUR 738 billion in assets
under custody. The transaction values Santander's custody operations in these countries at EUR 975
million and will generate a net capital gain for the Santander Group of approximately EUR 410 million,
which will be used to strengthen the balance sheet.
The company will focus on enhancing the products and services provided to its customers through
greater investment in its technology platform and team.
Warburg Pincus is a leading global private equity firm focused on growth investing with more than $37
billion assets under management. The firm has a long standing successful track record in financial
services investing, and has previously partnered with Banco Santander to jointly build best-in-class
businesses. Incorporated in 1974, Temasek is an investment company based in Singapore. Supported
by 11 offices globally, Temasek owns a $215 billion portfolio as at 31 March 2013, with 71% of its
underlying assets in Asia (including Singapore), and 25% in the mature economies of North America,
Europe, Australia & New Zealand. Around 2% of the portfolio is held in Latin America.

Banco Santander's Chief Executive Officer, Javier Marin said: "With this alliance, Santander will
significantly increase its fund administration, depositary and custody business in markets where we are
already leading providers. The transaction will enable us to increase and improve the products and
services we offer our clients, with a higher value-added proposition adapted to their needs."
Dan Zilberman, Warburg Pincus Managing Director and Head of its European Financial Services Group,
said: "We are pleased to partner with Banco Santander and the Santander Custody management team to
enhance the company's focus on providing best-in-class products and services to its customers in Spain
and Latin America. The custody market benefits from long term structural growth and we look forward to
supporting management in accelerating the company's growth and service offering."

About Grupo Financiero Santander Mexico (NYSE: BSMX; BMV: SANMEX) Grupo Financiero Santander
Mexico, S.A.B. de C.V. (Santander Mexico), one of Mexico's leading financial services holding
companies, provides a wide range of financial and related services, including retail and commercial
banking, securities brokerage, financial advisory and other related investment activities. Santander
Mexico offers a multichannel financial services platform focused on mid- to high-income individuals and
small- to medium-sized enterprises, while also providing integrated financial services to larger

Page137of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.multinational companies in Mexico. As of March 31, 2014, Santander Mexico had total assets of Ps.867.3
billion under Mexican GAAP and more than 10.7 million customers. Headquartered in Mexico City, the
Company operates 1,038 branches and 241 offices nationwide and has a total of 14,384 employees.
Banco Santander (SAN.MC, STD.N, BNC.LN) is a retail and commercial bank, based in Spain, with a
presence in 10 main markets. Santander is the largest bank in the euro zone by market capitalization.
Founded in 1857, Santander had EUR 1.24 trillion in managed funds, 103 million customers, 13,927
branches - more than any other international bank - and 182,958 employees at the close of 2013. It is the
largest financial group in Spain and Latin America. It also has significant positions in the United
Kingdom, Portugal, Germany, Poland and the northeast United States. Santander registered EUR 4.37
billion in attributable profit in 2013, an increase of 90% from the previous year.
Warburg Pincus LLC is a leading global private equity firm focused on growth investing. The firm has
more than $37 billion in assets under management. The firm's active portfolio of more than 120
companies is highly diversified by stage, sector and geography. Warburg Pincus is an experienced
partner to management teams seeking to build durable companies with sustainable value. Founded in
1966, Warburg Pincus has raised 13 private equity funds which have invested more than $48 billion in
over 700 companies in more than 35 countries. Current and past financial sector investments include
Aeolus Re, Arch Capital, Capital First, Datong International, FIS, HDFC, IDC, Kotak Mahindra Bank,
Mellon Bank, National Penn, Bancshares, Primerica, Renaissance Re Holdings, Sterling Financial,
Santander Consumer USA, Santander Asset Management, The Mutual Fund Store and Webster
Financial. The firm is headquartered in New York with offices in Amsterdam, Beijing, Frankfurt, Hong
Kong, London, Luxembourg, Mauritius, Mumbai, San Francisco, Sao Paulo and Shanghai. For more
information please visit www.warburgpincus.com.
Temasek is an investment company based in Singapore incorporated in 1974. Supported by 11 offices
globally, Temasek owns a $215 billion portfolio as at 31 March 2013, with 71% of its underlying assets in
Asia (including Singapore), and 25% in the mature economies of North America, Europe, Australia & New
Zealand. Around 2% of the portfolio is held in Latin America. Temasek's investment themes centre on:
transforming economies, growing middle income populations, deepening comparative advantages y
emerging champions. Temasek's portfolio covers a broad spectrum of sectors: financial services;
transportation, logistics and industrials; telecommunications, media & technology; life sciences, consumer
& real estate; energy & resources. Temasek's Total Shareholder Return since inception in 1974 has
been 16% compounded annually. The company has had a corporate credit rating of AAA/Aaa since its
inaugural credit rating in 2004, by rating agencies Standard & Poor's and Moody's respectively. For more
information on Temasek, please visit www.temasek.com.sg.
Keywords for this news article include: Asia, China, Economics, Singapore, Technology, Finance and
Investment, Investment and Finance, Grupo Financiero Santander Mexico S.A.B. de C.V..

Our reports deliver fact-based news of research and discoveries from around the world. Copyright 2014,
NewsRx LLC

CO

IN

NS

RE

bcosnt : Banco Santander Mexico S.A. | bncstd : Banco Santander SA | invmxo : Grupo Financiero
Santander Mexico S.A.B. de C.V. | wpcap : Warburg Pincus LLC
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150203 :
Private Equity | i831 : Financial Investments | ialtinv : Alternative Investments | ibnk : Banking/Credit |
ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
c184 : Joint Ventures | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial
News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
mex : Mexico | spain : Spain | austr : Australia | hkong : Hong Kong | nz : New Zealand | apacz : Asia
Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | china : China | chinaz : Greater
China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia |
eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | lamz : Latin America | medz : Mediterranean | namz :
North America | weurz : Western Europe
Expanded Reporting

IPD
PUB NewsRX, LLC
AN

Document CHWKNW0020140627ea710003h

Page138of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.