Goodman investors question takeover

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Goodman investors question takeover

Eli Greenblat
414 words
21 November 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
21
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Shareholders in Australia’s leading listed food company, Goodman Fielder, have questioned the
board’s backing of a $1.3 billion takeover by Singaporean oils groupWilmar International and Hong
Kong investor First Pacific, just as the region is opening up to local produce thanks to the landmark
free trade agreement with Asian economic giant China.

Facing criticism from retail investors who turned up to what could be 100-year-old Goodman Fielder’s
final shareholders’ meeting as a public company, chief executive Chris Delaney warned that the
future wasn’t bright even if the company decided to remain independent as market conditions were
tough.

Chairman Steven Gregg said 2014-15 was consistent with last year’s conditions, characterised by
weak consumer sentiment and heightened competition that put pressure on pricing and volume in
some of the company’s key categories.

He was backed by Goodman Fielder director Ian Johnston, the former boss of brewer Foster’s, who in
his re-election pitch to shareholders said the competitive landscape was difficult because of the
relationship with the major supermarkets, through which the group sold its produce.

The baking and grocery markets in Australia and New Zealand, where Goodman Fielder has a huge
portfolio of branded products, were being challenged by the onslaught of private label competition.
The company’s popular bread range, including Helga’s and Mighty Soft, had been hit by recent offers
of 85c bread from the supermarkets.

Retail shareholders still voiced their concern, however, lamenting the loss of a historic Australian
company into overseas hands, at a time when demand from Asia for baking and dairy foods was a
huge opportunity for Goodman Fielder.

In the wings are Wilmar and First Pacific, which are now awaiting regulatory approval from New
Zealand and China’s Ministry of Commerce to push ahead with their offer of 67.5c a share, a
takeover that values the group at $1.3bn.
As shareholders prepare to receive an independent experts’ report, regulatory approval from China
has been delayed for several months, raising concerns the nation could block the deal altogether.
Wilmar and First Pacific require approval from China’s Ministry of Commerce because both
companies operate sizeable businesses in China.The takeover, conducted via a scheme of
arrangement and supported by the Goodman Fielderboard nearly six months ago, has been
approved by the Foreign Investment Review Board, the Australian Competition and Consumer
Commission and NZ’s Commerce Commission.

CO
IN

fdgl : Goodman Fielder Ltd
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp : Consumer Goods

Page57of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

RE

PUB
AN

cacqu : Acquisitions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 :
Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141120eabl0002d

Page58of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.