O'Farrell denies close relationship with AWH chief

HD O'Farrell denies close relationship with AWH chief
BY
Ashley Hall
WC 937 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

15 April 2014
Australian Broadcasting Corporation Transcripts
ABCTRS
English
(c) 2014 Australian Broadcasting Corporation

TD

The former chief of Australian Water Holdings, Nick Di Girolamo, has told a corruption hearing in Sydney
that he gave the premier Barry O'Farrell a $3,000 bottle of wine to celebrate his election win. He's also
told the inquiry he spoke to Mr O'Farrell as often as once every couple of weeks during the early days of
the new government. Under fierce attack from the state Opposition, Mr O'Farrell has denied having a
close relationship with the Liberal Party donor.

ELEANOR HALL: Under fierce attack from the State Opposition, the New South Wales Premier Barry
O'Farrell has denied having a close relationship with the Liberal Party donor and former chief of Australian
Water Holdings, Nick Di Girolamo.

But today Mr Di Girolamo told a corruption hearing in Sydney that he gave the Premier Barry O'Farrell a
$3,000 bottle of wine to celebrate his election win.

He also told the inquiry that he spoke to Mr O'Farrell as often as once every couple of weeks during the
early days of the new government.

Mr O'Farrell will give evidence himself this afternoon.

Ashley Hall is our reporter covering the inquiry and he joins us now.

So Ashley, what was the inquiry told about the nature of the relationship between Mr Di Girolamo and Mr
O'Farrell?

ASHLEY HALL: Well Eleanor, Mr Di Girolamo was asked about a gift he bought for Mr O'Farrell and his
wife. It turns out it was a $3,000 bottle of Grange. Mr Di Girolamo said he bought it for the Premier to
congratulate him on his election win, and he said he got Mr O'Farrell's home address from the Premier's
Office and sent the wine by courier.
Mr Di Girolamo acknowledged he's never bought such an expensive bottle of wine for anyone else, his
wife included, but said it was to congratulate Mr O'Farrell after 16 long winters in opposition.

As you can imagine, the counsel assisting, Geoffrey Watson SC, wasn't buying that. He asked, wasn't it
an attempt to grease the wheels?

"No," Mr Di Girolamo replied.

Mr Watson went on, "Wasn't it an attempt to persuade Mr O'Farrell to make a decision favourable to
Australian Water Holdings?"

"No," he responded.

At the time AWH was trying to negotiate a public-private partnership to provide water infrastructure in the
north-west of Sydney, and Mr Di Girolamo was writing to ministers, asking them to direct Sydney Water to
enter into negotiations for this partnership.
Mr Watson asked, "You were trying to buy your way into access to the Liberal Party?"

The response, "I didn't need to."

Page115of259©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Importantly, Mr O'Farrell has played down his association with Mr Di Girolamo. He was asked by a Daily
Telegraph journalist on March the 6th about this gift of wine, and he denied receiving it, nor has he
declared it on the pecuniary interest register.

ELEANOR HALL: So, Ash, was Mr Di Girolamo also asked about the large number of Liberal Party linked
lobbyists employed by AWH?

ASHLEY HALL: Yes, he was. The inquiry's been shown a number of donations, documents about
donations, being given by the company to the New South Wales Liberal Party. There was $30,000 for a
dinner with Barry O'Farrell, $10,000 for dinner with Joe Hockey and $1,000 for dinner with Tony Abbott -
"The cheapest of the lot," the counsel assisting remarked.

The Labor Party didn't go unnoticed either. There was a dinner with Anthony Albanese for $2,000 and, as
you mentioned, the company had a number of lobbyists on its books and each on $5,000 or more a
month, among them Michael Fotios, Tim Coleman and Paul Nicolaou.
Mr Di Girolamo explained they each bought a number of distinct skills that the company needed, and he
denied he was paying them as a way to get access to Liberal ministers.
I asked why a document records a $1 million success fee for Mr Fotios, which he denied agreeing to,
that's Mr Fotios by the way, Mr Di Girolamo said it was a way of cutting the upfront costs, so a discount
upfront and a success fee later on.

As I said, Mr Fotios was adamant that he did not accept such a relationship.

ELEANOR HALL: Now the Premier Barry O'Farrell is scheduled to appear at the inquiry this afternoon.
What is the key line of questioning that he's likely to face?

ASHLEY HALL: Well, when he announced that he was planning to call the Premier today, Mr Watson
offered an explanation. He said that he'd been in two minds as to whether Mr O'Farrell should be called,
but that there have been things that have developed that make him think he should be called, or that he
must be called and last week, the former finance minister Greg Pearce appeared before the inquiry and
spoke about being called to a closed meeting between Mr Di Girolamo and Mr O'Farrell in May, 2011.

Mr Pearce said he felt like a "schoolboy" being called to explain to the headmaster why he hadn't done his
homework in relation to this public-private partnership proposed by Australian Water Holdings.
Mr O'Farrell couldn't give evidence last week because he was in China on a trade mission, so the
questions will flow this afternoon.

ELEANOR HALL: Ashley Hall, our reporter there covering the corruption hearings in Sydney, thank you.

NS

RE

gcorrp : Corruption | gpol : Domestic Politics | ntra : Transcripts | gcat : Political/General News | gcrim :
Crime/Courts | gfinc : Financial Crime | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania

IPD ICAC
PUB Australian Broadcasting Corporation
AN

Document ABCTRS0020140415ea4f0005l

Page116of259©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.