Great bank mysteries

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Great bank mysteries

JoyeChristopher Joye
1,318 words
11 October 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
28
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Notwithstanding humans' innate desire to believe in basic answers to complex problems, solutions are
often intricate. The secret to unravelling the most intractable puzzles is to pose simple yet penetrating
questions that reveal underlying inconsistencies. Allow me to present a few examples investors of all
stripes should consider.
Why isn't anyone asking what National Australia Bank is doing pouring its scarce equity capital – which
the government will probably require it to increase in the years ahead – into a British commercial
property business, given its heinous track record of burning billions of dollars in precisely this space?

The irony of the situation could not be more acute. A couple of days after NAB said it was planning to
punt shareholder cash on a highly pro-cyclical British commercial property fund manager, it disclosed
another $605 million write-down of existing UK assets, which will contribute to a rare fall in full-year
profits.
Only three months ago, NAB was forced to sell $1.1 billion of "distressed" commercial property loans
from its beleaguered UK banking subsidiary, Clydesdale Bank, whose commercial property borrowers
have been defaulting on their debts. NAB reportedly had to transfer $6.3 billion of Clydesdale's bad
real estate loans to its Australian balance sheet, which it is now selling down.

This episode suggests Australian bankers have few comparative advantages in British financial
services, which makes perfect intuitive sense. Yet, for some reason, NAB is allowed to mindlessly
repeat its errors.

For years I've asked similar questions about ANZ's "super-regional strategy", which targets generating
30 per cent of its total profits from loans to companies and individuals in Asian markets, including
Indonesia, Malaysia, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Singapore, India, the Philippines, Burma, Vietnam, and
China.

These are foreign states with radically different languages, political systems and business cultures, and
conflicting approaches to the regulation of banking, property rights, the rule of law and human rights.
We all understand China is our largest trading partner and key export market for iron ore and coal,
which Australia does have a comparative advantage in producing.Idiosyncratic risks
The question is what overriding commercial "edge" do Aussie bankers have doing business inside
Asian nations? There is absolutely merit in facilitating cross-border trade with our import and export
partners. Yet it is also reasonable to suppose our bankers will struggle to compete against local players
with superior political and social capital, and knowledge of the unique credit risks that characterise
overseas borrowers.

Invert the issue. How many foreign institutions have taken material market share away from the majors,
which today control more than 80 per cent of Australia's core savings and loans sectors? The answer is
none. Many have tried and failed, with only ING Direct and Rabobank surviving as marginal
participants.

Page169of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Analysts say far from being a high-reward opportunity, ANZ's risky Asian operations generate only
10 per cent returns, compared with 15 per cent to 16 per cent annual gains on its Australian activities.

A further issue for ANZ is that if 30 per cent of its profits come from Asia by 2017 and another 20 per
cent originate in New Zealand, how can it continue to pay fully franked dividends to Aussie
shareholders?

It is possible ANZ will ultimately be compelled to abandon its Asian adventures, as it did with its last
foray into India (when it bought and sold Grindlays Bank). History teaches us the major banks tend to
discard offshore subsidiaries when returns inevitably disappoint and management works out they
cannot outwit (or properly supervise) the locals. But then a future CEO thinks he's brighter than his
predecessors, and repeats the mistakes.

The more fundamental concern is that ANZ will expose its Australian shareholders, like NAB has done
with its ill-conceived UK bets, to the uncertainty inherent in Asian credits that have idiosyncratic
catastrophe risks. One only needs to reflect on the riots in Hong Kong, the combustible brinkmanship
between China and Japan or the frequency of terrorist incidents in Indonesia to appreciate the
instability these markets introduce into ANZ's business model.All-pervasive power

Here's a third puzzle. After several high-profile mis-selling crises over the past decade, you would think
someone at these institutions would have asked the question: is it really a smart idea for us to buy (or
legally align) most of Australia's independent financial planners, which have an obligation to act in their
clients' best interests, and then seek to conflict them by paying sales bonuses for flogging our
products?

Surely somebody could have figured out treating financial advisers as just another sales channel like
branches would risk polluting both the planners' and the banks' brands? Apparently not.

This brings me to my final question: does it make sense to give four banks unpriced taxpayer subsidies
that allow them to raise funding more cost-effectively than anyone else; regulation that enables them to
hold less capital than their peers; and, finally, let them exploit the ensuing market power to consolidate
other industries?

This "vertical integration" is now the heart of the modern major bank enterprise. You start by using your
cost-of-capital edge, which is a function of your size (and thus begets more scale), to dominate
conventional savings and loans. Whenever chance affords, you gobble up competitors to bulk up more
(think St George, BankWest, Aussie, RAMs, Wizard, Challenger's lending operations, etc), peddling
the line "too much competition undermines financial stability". You then co-opt regulators into letting
you hold more leverage than peers, which means your economic advantage is unassailable.

Having expanded as far as you can within the main financial system, which you have effectively
become (and cannot therefore grow more rapidly than), you use your world-beating profits to power into
other industries. So you acquire most of the fund managers. You build or buy investment banks and
equity and debt capital broking businesses for retail and institutional customers. You internalise
financial planners to boost your branch networks.

And you create superannuation products that your now all-pervasive distribution networks' footprints
can push to help you control the retirement income system.Investors' only hope

With your foot on the throat of every link in the financial value chain, you can cross-subsidise and price
both new threats and existing competitors out of markets while also stealthily restricting third parties'
access to your own clients. Your "administration platforms", which are like electronic walled gardens
that connect customers and advisers with, in theory, all publicly available financial solutions (no
third-line forcing here!), naturally have "approved product lists", which take years (if ever) for innovative
new entrants and competitors to be accepted into. In this way, you limit choice and customer mobility
under the rubric of risk management.

This python-like approach has been previously proven with deposits and loans. The banks control the
so-called "payments system", which has to date prevented real-time transfers of our savings between
institutions. Very convenient. And they have rationally resisted creating common electronic connections
between institutions that would facilitate real-time switching of credit cards, personal loans, residential
mortgages and the associated customer data.

The "universal bank" today clips the ticket everywhere you turn: on the customer's financial advice, the
products the adviser recommends (including the savings, loans, insurance, super, and the shares and
managed funds the super is allocated across) and the administration of all of the above.

Page170of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.It is the financial equivalent to Woolworths, where the banks also own the farmers, the food and
beverage suppliers, and the product manufacturers. Or a pharmaceutical company that owns the
doctors (and can pay them to spruik medicines).

Investors' only hope is that Treasurer Joe Hockey's financial system inquiry, run by David Murray and a
band of former bankers who have not publicly disclosed their conflicts, ask and address these
questions.

CO
IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

ncbnk : National Australia Bank Ltd
i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking | ifinal : Financial Services
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | reqrbc : Suggested Reading Banking/Credit | redit : Selection of Top
Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141010eaab0000b

Page171of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.