The banquet has only just begun

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

OpEd
The banquet has only just begun

JAMES LAURENCESON
567 words
19 November 2014
Courier Mail
COUMAI
CourierMail
23
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

THE world leader most important to Queensland has just left the building. And it wasn’t Barack
Obama or Shinzo Abe. Chinese President, Xi Jinping, thanks for stopping by.
When China overtook Japan to become Australia’s largest customer for goods exports five years ago,
Queensland remained a bastion of the old order. At the end of 2008, Queensland’s goods exports to
Japan were five-and-a-half times the value of China. Those to Korea and India doubled China as
well.

Now Queensland’s economy is humming along with all the raucous energy of an eight-course
Chinese banquet.

Since 2008, the value of goods exports to Japan, Korea and India has gone backwards to the tune of
$6.5 billion, $1 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively. These damaging falls in demand have been
entirely offset by an $8.8 billion jump in exports to China.
Queensland’s goods exports to China are now 35 per cent higher than those to Japan and account
for 25.8 per cent of the state’s total. China is buying much more than only our coal. In June this year
there were 9228 students from China studying in Queensland universities. That’s more than double
the number from Japan, Korea and India combined. The state also welcomed 302,000 Chinese
tourists last year.

The big story for Queensland’s economy in the coming decade will be liquefied natural gas (LNG). In
June, Santos CEO David Knox remarked that if Queensland was a country, it was about to become
the world’s fourth-largest producer. And China’s in the thick of it.
In 2011, China’s Sinopec agreed to buy 4.3 million tonnes per annum (mtpa) from Origin Energy’s
Australia Pacific LNG project in a deal worth $90 billion over 20 years. The following year it signed on
for 3.3 mtpa more. Still not content it then kicked in 25 per cent of the project’s $24.7 billion capital
cost to get things up and running. First shipments out of Gladstone are expected in 2015.
It’s not only in the resources sector. In 2011 when Chinese company COFCO took a majority stake
in Tully Sugar the fear was locals would lose their jobs to imported Chinese workers on $2 a day and
all the output would be shipped back to China. What actually happened was the existing workforce
was kept, the mill received a $14 million facelift and North Queensland sugar continues to be sold all
over the world.
What’s next is anyone’s guess but beef is fast finding favour with Chinese taste buds. According to
the Meat and Livestock Association, the value of Australia’s beef and veal exports to China jumped
3273 per cent in the past five years.
For China, it’s all about increasing the size of the pie. China can’t do it alone: it needs to join forces
with local companies and workers.

Page16of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The Free Trade Agreement signed on Monday will create even more opportunities. The problem is
that for all its enormous potential the Chinese market is an unfamiliar one and we simply aren’t
producing enough.

If we get this right, the banquet is only just getting started.Professor James Laurenceson is deputy
director, Australia-China Relations Institute (ACRI), University of Technology, Sydney

NS

RE

PUB
AN

c312 : External Markets | c31 : Marketing/Markets | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | jap : Japan | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz :
Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document COUMAI0020141118eabj0001p

Page17of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.