Voyager Global Group extends public offer

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Voyager Global Group extends public offer

339 words
15 December 2014
Middle East North Africa Financial Network (MENAFN)
MENAFI
English
Copyright 2014. Middle East North Africa Financial Network Inc.

(MENAFN - ProactiveInvestors)
Voyager Global Group (ASX:VGR) formerly Sprint Energy has offered investors additional time to
acquire up to $7 million worth of shares in the company priced at $0.20 each.

In October the company invited applications for up to 35 million shares under a public offering.
This has now being extended to 21 January 2015.

Voyager is acquiring Voyager Global Choice Pty Ltd (VGC) which seeks to facilitate the investment
by Australian retail investors into a range of individual funds managed by offshore-based fund
managers.
This is a move away from its previous focus on oil and gas exploration.
The acquisition is still subject to all VGC Shareholders entering into share sale agreements to
enable the Company to acquire 100% of VGC.

Voyager is offering 62283457 on a pro-rate basis to acquire VGC.

Voyager Global Choice

Voyager Global Choice intends to have various Australian Funds established which will invest
directly into an Offshore Fund specific to that Australian Fund.

Each of these Australian Funds will have a responsible entity custodian and fund administrator all
of which are external and unrelated to the Company or VGC.

Investors will invest funds into the Australian Fund which correlates with their chosen Offshore
Fund.

Those funds will be pooled within the Australian Fund and then the Australian Fund will invest the
investorsrsquo; funds into the corresponding Offshore Fund.

Retail investors will use the mFund platform in the same way that shares are bought or sold on the
ASX.

The proposed offshore-based fund managers will all be highly credible groups with large industry
profiles and offer funds with an official investment-grade (or similar) rating from industry ratings
group Morningstar or other similar groups.

VGC will receive administration fees from the offshore fund managers based on assets under
management.

nbsp;

Proactive Investors Australia is the market leader in producing news articles and research reports
on ASX ldquo;Small and Mid-caprdquo; stocks with distribution in Australia UK North America and
Hong Kong / China.

Page171of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Middle East North Africa Financial Network Inc
Document MENAFI0020141215eacf00016

Page172of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.