Mantra eyes float despite past failures

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Finance
Mantra eyes float despite past failures

BRIDGET CARTER
473 words
28 March 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
1 - All-round Country
19
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

PROPERTY: Mantra's owners are expected to make a third attempt to sell the country's
second-largest hotel operator later this year via a float on the Australian Securities Exchange.
They were forced this week to shelve plans for an April listing of the company that they had earlier
paid a bullish $450 million to buy near the peak of the market.

Private equity firm CVC Asia Pacific and investment bank UBS pulled the Mantra float on
Wednesday night, just hours after discounting the initial public offering by about 5 per cent, due to
fears over how the company would trade.
Sources close to Mantra blamed the failure on weak demand from jittery Hong Kong and London
investors, deterred by a major float failure in Japan.

``We have a lot of interest out there. It is anticipated it will be presented back to the market in some
form. We haven't exactly worked out how,'' said Mantra's chief executive Bob East.

``The business is good and growing, so everybody likes that story.''

Other sources close to the deal said another attempt at a listing between September and December
was likely, with the hope Mantra's earnings would increase, driving stronger investor demand.

Mantra's decision to scrap its float plans takes the collective market value of planned IPOs that
have been shelved in the past six months to at least $2.5bn, with questions lingering over the
success of other upcoming floats.

The hotel operator's market capitalisation was initially to be between $476m and $549m, before it
was repriced down to $449m.
Mr East said the company did not receive any investor feedback that the price was too high.

``We are obviously going to do a thorough review. We didn't set the price. At the end of the day, the
banks assigned an appropriate value and we went with their recommendation,'' he said.

``If we get feedback around price, we will obviously take that into consideration.''

CVC Asia Pacific paid $450m for Mantra, previously known as Stella and once part of the failed
Gold Coast group MFS, just before the market slump in 2008.
Attempts to offload the business via a trade sale two years ago were unsuccessful after one
potential buyer, private equity firmArcher Capital, was understood to be offering $350m.

Mantra operates 111 properties and more than 11,400 rooms across Australia, New Zealand and
Indonesia, and is second only to Accor locally.

Page228of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The listing of Mantra, which had been billed as the largest hotel float in more than a decade, was to
have taken place at a time of increasing strength in the Australian hotel sector.
The offer was being handled by joint lead managers UBS and Macquarie Capital, supported by Ord
Minnett and Morgans Financial.

IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

i831 : Financial Investments | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
c1711 : Initial Public Offerings | c02 : Corporate Changes | c14 : Stock Listings | c17 :
Funding/Capital | c171 : Share Capital | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial
News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140327ea3s000aq

Page229of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.