IRON CLAD EXCLUSIVE Major boost for $4.5b mine poised to generate 2000 new jobs

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
IRON CLAD EXCLUSIVE Major boost for $4.5b mine poised to generate 2000 new jobs

TORY SHEPHERD POLITICAL EDITOR
1,037 words
5 April 2014
The Advertiser
ADVTSR
Advertiser
1
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

THE Federal Government will fast-track a $4.5 billion mining project touted as a saviour for the Eyre
Peninsula and a huge boost for the state economy. The Central EyreIron Project has been granted
major project facilitation status – clearing the way for it to proceed and eventually employ about 2000
people at its peak . It is also expected to generate major economic benefits for Wudinna and the
surrounding area and could bring in up to $3 billion a year as it exports ore to Asia.
Iron Road managing direc-tor Andrew Stocks will follow Prime Minister Tony Abbott to Asia next week
to woo investors.

CONTINUED PAGE 11 Iron project a breath of fresh Eyre for SA FROM PAGE 1 Mr Stocks and his
colleagues will head to China to speak to local investors and others from Korea and Japan with the
imprimatur of the PM, who leaves for Asia today.
Iron Road has spent millions of dollars over several years to build momentum for what will be the
nation’s largest magnetite iron ore project.

It is hoped the project will fill some of the gap caused by BHP Billiton’s shelving of the Olympic Dam
expansion and deliver a much-needed boost to the economy by 2017, when Holden stops making cars
in South Australia.
Mr Stocks said the company had spent $100 million on a two-year feasibility study and now wanted to
“move with some haste” through approval processes so it could secure finance. Then it would be able to
build a railway line, a deep-water port and upgrade power and water supplies in the region.

“We want to get it happening as fast as we can. Time is of the essence,” Mr Stocks said, adding that
now the feasibility study was done, it was the approvals process that could hold up the project.

The project already had major project status through the State Government and the addition of major
project facilitation status would steer the company swiftly through processes at both levels and help it
find Asian investors.
“It is very important for government to lead business, particularly in Asia,” Mr Stocks said. “We work in
parallel here, but it doesn’t work that way in Asia.” SA Liberal frontbencher Christopher Pyne lobbied his
colleagues to ensure it became a major project. He said the move would remove hurdles and red tape
and that Deputy Prime Minister and Infrastructure Minister Warren Truss would help link the company
to investors and foreign governments.

“Giving it major project facilitation status means the Federal Government will put its shoulder to the
wheel for the company and make sure it’s not bogged down in red tape,” Mr Pyne said.

He said it was hard to raise so much capital without help and the status would remove “potential minor
irritants” that could slow down the project.

Page13of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.He also said SA was the only state that was resistant to the idea of “one-stop shops” for environmental
approvals to streamline similar projects.
The 6km-long open-pit magnetite iron ore mine would be able to produce more than 20 million tonnes
of ore a year. It is expected to operate for at least 25 to 30 years.

Mr Stocks said while most people were on side, he had no doubt people would raise concerns,
particularly about environmental impacts.

“People will be watching to make sure we’re guided properly. I have no problem talking to people who
are concerned about aspects of the project,” he said.

About 2000 people will be employed at the site during construction, after which a workforce of 600 to
700 people will be needed.
Wudinna mayor Tim Scholz stepped down from his position last year to work with Iron Road, saying the
company could save the Eyre Peninsula community because it would lead to new infrastructure and
jobs. He said it was important to maximise the benefits for the area and make sure there were jobs for
locals.
In 2012, Iron Road announced plans for a deep-water port at Cape Hardy, north of Tumby Bay, on the
Eyre Peninsula as part of the required infrastructure.

It will also include a 150km infrastructure corridor for a railway line, power and water lines to connect
the mine to the port. It is understood some properties may need to be bought to allow the corridor to
proceed, but the company does not have compulsory acquisition rights.

The project will be the only one with federal major project facilitation status in SA. Other projects with
status include major mining projects, rail routes and natural gas plants.

ROAD TO PROSPERITY What is the project?
The Central Eyre Iron Project is an iron ore mining proposal which aims to export about 21.5 million
tonnes of ore per year for at least 25 years.

Where is it?

The project would be 28km southeast of Wudinna, and would involve an open cut mine 6.5km long by
500m deep. A 148km rail line to a new port at Cape Hardy on the eastern coast of the Eyre Peninsula,
with a capacity of 70 million tonnes per year, is also envisaged.

How much is it worth?
The company has spent about $100 million getting the project to this stage but would need to spend
another $4.5 billion to construct the mine, rail line and port.

How many people will it employ?

About 1000 people would be employed during construction, with a peak of 1950, and 500 ongoing jobs
would be created during the mine’s 25-year life.

When will it start?
The company is hoping to start building in October this year with the first ore to be shipped in 2018.

What are the obstacles?
At the state level the project will need a mining lease, an approved Program or Environmental
Protection and Rehabilitation and development approvals for all elements such as the rail lines,
accommodation village etc. It would also need approval under the federal Environmental Protection and
Biodiversity Conservation Act.
The company also needs to buy the six farms which the minewould affect.

IN
NS
RE

i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources
npag : Page-One Stories | ncat : Content Types
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

Page14of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB
AN

News Ltd.
Document ADVTSR0020140404ea4500047

Page15of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.