Stafford says he's done at PanAust

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Finance
Stafford says he's done at PanAust

BARRY FITZGERALD, RESOURCES
584 words
7 March 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
1 - All-round Country
20
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

PANAUST'S managing director of the past 18 years Gary Stafford has flagged he will step down from
the Laos copper and gold producer inside of 18 months.

Neither he nor the board expect he would leave in the next six months. ``I want to make sure the
business has a smooth transition,'' Mr Stafford said.

His looming departure follows a spate of departures -- or planned departures -- at other mining
companies, including those at BHP Billiton, Rio Tinto, Newcrest and OZ Minerals, all for differing
reasons.

``This is all about PanAust. It's not about what has been going on in the broader environment,
because we feel we have been doing really well,'' Mr Stafford said.
In the past 18 years, PanAust has grown from a $5 million exploration company to one now valued
at $1.14 billion, whose success is built around its acquisition in 2001 from Normandy Mining of the
Phu Bia contract area in communist Laos.
The remote mountainous region is home to PanAust's flagship Phu Kham copper/gold mine and the
more recently developed Ban Houayxai gold/silver mine.
Mr Stafford leaves as the group's copper production from Laos could grow by as 40 per cent before
the end of the decade without its having to spend much on capital, and as it has the growth options of
the Frieda River copper/gold project in Papua New Guinea, and the Inca de Oro copper/gold
project in Chile.

Mr Stafford said that if he had stayed on, he would have had to make a five-year commitment to see
PanAust through the funding, implementation and first production of either Frieda River or Inca de
Oro. It was a commitment he did not want to make.

He said: ``From a personal perspective, I think I have done that in my career. It would involve similar
sort of challenges to what I've done before, and it doesn't really fire me up in terms of wanting to do it
again.''

Mr Stafford said at the age of 53, he still had plenty of ``fuel in the tank''. He said that his
post-PanAust life was likely to include charitable work in Laos. ``I really owe that nation,'' he said.

PanAust's involvement in the proposed $US1.8 Frieda River project is through a deal to buy
GlencoreXstrata's 80 per cent stake for $US75m ($83m). That deal remains dependent on
GlencoreXstrata selling its $US6bn Las Bambas copper project in Peru to satisfy conditions laid
down by China on last year's merger between Glencore and its majority owned Xstrata.

If Las Bambas is not sold, Beijing reserved the right to direct GlencoreXstrata to sell one of four other
copper assets, one of which was Frieda River. But GlencoreXstrata this week confirmed that it was

Page14of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.in negotiations with China's Minmetals (it owns 72 per cent of the Melbourne-based miner MMG) to
conclude a Las Bambas deal.
Mr Stafford was last listed as having a direct and indirect interest in 11.23 million PanAust shares,
worth $20m at yesterday's market price of $1.80 a share.

After the cancellation of certain rights under Mr Stafford's previous contract, and the addition of some
undertakings as part of the transition to a new managing director, he will receive a $4.68m payment,
as well his normal performance-linked pay of up to $3.4m.

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

golpla : OZ Minerals Limited
i2114 : Copper Ore/Nickel Ore Mining | i22472 : Precious Metals | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 :
Primary Metals | i224 : Non-ferrous Metals | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140306ea3700027

Page15of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.