DAIRY farmers and Australian farmers in general

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

ON THE LAND
DAIRY farmers and Australian farmers in general

EVERARD HIMMELREICH
421 words
20 November 2014
The Warrnambool Standard
FWARST
26
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

DAIRY farmers and Australian farmers in general lack engagement at the value end of the food
chain.
That's according to Gary Helou, who heads up Murray Goulburn, Australia's largest dairy foods
company. Speaking this month at the Australian Farm Institute Roundtable dinner in Melbourne,
Mr Helou said dairy farmers were active and engaged with farm-related matters, but not when it
came to the supply chain.

"I look at the incredible farmer activism and engagement about all matters that deal with the farm,"
he said. "They (farmers) have a high level of engagement in terms of economics and political
matters, even free trade.

"Yet, when you get across to where the value is, which is the food their primary product they are
completely bloody disengaged."

Mr Helou said he attended farmer meetings up four or five times a year, where he was
"bombarded" by questions about matters relating to the farm.

"That is fair enough. That is my job.
"But I beg sometimes for a question about how we (MG) are doing with cheese in Japan or how is
our nutritional plant going in China or what is our share of X, Y and Z in those growth markets?,"
he said. "And I'm brave enough to suggest that the same level of apathy exists in other sectors.

"Farmer 'passivism' and disengagement at the value end of the chain is bewildering."

Mr Helou said the day that farmers became engaged on the market end of the chain then
agriculture sector would be in a healthier state.

"A farmer, or trader, needs to know on what side of the fence they want to sit," he said.

"If you hand over your product at the farm gate, you are basically at your weakest, you are getting
your lowest price you are handing over all the value to someone else.
"It is only when you have an ownership stake and have an involvement, that you will create that
wealth."

He said farmers needed to recognise their product was used to produce an agricultural good after it
left the farm gate.
"People don't eat wheat, they don't eat live cows or raw milk," Mr Helou said.

Mr Helou said only a fraction of the value was at the farm gate.

Page158of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."You are in a weak negotiating position. Left alone; a farmer ex-farm gate is in a very weak
position."

mryglb : Murray Goulburn Co-operative Company Limited
i010010502 : Dairy Cattle Farming | i0 : Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | i0100105 : Cattle Farming |
ilsfarm : Livestock Farming | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i413 : Dairy Products | icnp :
Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products
austr : Australia | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FWARST0020141119eabk00012

CO
IN

RE
PUB
AN

Page159of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.