GH Properties to target owner-occupiers in Brisbane

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
GH Properties to target owner-occupiers in Brisbane

Michael Bleby
434 words
23 October 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
44
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Chinese developer GH Properties is entering the Australian high-rise residential market with a
20-storey project at Milton, near the Brisbane CBD.
Hong Kong-based GH will begin construction next year on Icon Milton, a $175-million development of
two towers containing 251 apartments aimed at the owner-occupier market, rather than investors.

The company, which in February purchased Noosa Springs Golf and Spa Resort and in December
The Links Hope Island Golf Club on the Gold Coast, has three other sites it is planning to build
residential towers on – in Sydney's Epping and CBD, as well as at Forster in northern NSW.

"They decided to make a big play into Australia," project manager Barry Jakeman told The Australian
Financial Review. "They want to spread their risk and get money out of China into a more stable
environment."
The company, part of parent Golden Horse Group, has more than two decades' experience at
building residential properties and golf courses in China and also intends to redevelop the two
Queensland golf courses it owns, Mr Jakeman said.

Milton, the first train station outside the CBD, is one of a growing band of inner suburbs experiencing
accommodation growth. It is within walking distance of the Park Road dining precinct, Southbank
Parklands, Paddington's boutiques and Suncorp Stadium.

The apartments at Icon Milton, designed by Jackson Teece architects, will start at about $375,000 for
a single bed, rising up to $1.5 million, Mr Jakeman said. A greater proportion of two-bedroom
apartments with study or three bedrooms of generous size makes them more suitable for the
owner-occupier market that GH Properties says has not been adequately served.

"We are keen to meet demand for luxury apartments in the inner suburbs of Brisbane as the city's real
estate market continues to strengthen," GH Properties director Feng Di said. With Brisbane's
apartment construction market surging – the city was on track to pick up to a record average 2700
completions a year by 2015-16, research firm BIS Shrapnel said in January – the owner-occupier
may be a safer market.

"We do expect the market to be locally oversupplied two, three years out from now," BIS Shrapnel
researcher Angie Zigomanis said on Wednesday.

"If you're in a situation where you're forced to sell, if your potential market is investors and
owner-occupiers, it gives you a broader market to be selling into. If you are an investor and want to try
and flip it, it may not be so easy."

IN

i5010022 : Residential Building Construction | ireest : Real Estate | i501 : Building Construction |
iconst : Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction

Page195of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

PUB
AN

austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141022eaan0004s

Page196of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.