Rio Tinto Weighs Bougainville Copper Stake

HD
BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Rio Tinto Weighs Bougainville CopperStake

By Rhiannon Hoyle
799 words
18 August 2014
18:58
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

SYDNEY-- Rio Tinto PLC's grip on its closed Bougainville copper mine--one of the world's biggest
deposits of the metal--remained firm in the 1990s throughout bloody independence clashes in Papua
New Guinea.
But as the mine edges toward restarting after a quarter of a century and copper prices rise, Rio is
considering heading for the exit.

On Monday, the Anglo-Australian miner said it was reviewing its options for its controlling stake in
Bougainville Copper Ltd., the mining company that owns the Panguna mine in Bougainville, Papua
New Guinea, after the government passed new mining laws that may strip the company of its lease on
the site.

For a country best known for its jungles and tribal society, Papua New Guinea saw in Panguna a path
to riches when the mine started up in 1972. The impoverished country was then still under Australian
control, and had little industry of its own other than fishing the schools of tuna that swam near its
shores.

However, islanders soon became envious of the revenue that was flowing to government coffers in Port
Moresby rather than being used for Bougainville schools, health clinics and boosting local incomes.
Those frustrations, combined with worries over the mine's poor environmental record, burst into
violence in 1989 when militants forced the mine to shut down.
At the time of its closure, the mine was producing around 166,000 metric tons of copper and 450,000
troy ounces of gold annually. That is enough copper for 7.3 million typical American-made cars.
Earlier this year, there were signs the mine was on the path to being rebuilt. Bougainville Copper had
been pushing forward with negotiations in recent years amid a rally in copper prices, underpinned by
rising demand from China, which uses the metal in everything from apartment buildings to electricity
grids.
Landowners, officers from both the Bougainville and national governments, and mining executives
have been working toward a customary reconciliation ceremony known as "bel kol," which Peter
Taylor--chairman of Bougainville Copper for more than a decade--says is "best translated as a cooling
of the heart, or a lowering of the emotional temperature."

What became a decadelong secessionist rebellion on the island, leading to thousands of deaths, ended
in a cease-fire in 1998. However, earlier this month new mining laws were passed that will devolve the
power to regulate mining to Bougainville's autonomous government from the Papua New Guinea
national government.
Under the legislation, Bougainville Copper--in which Papua New Guinea's government holds a 19%
interest--would lose its mining lease for Panguna, which would be exchanged for an exploration
license. The company would have to reapply for the lease.
"Rio Tinto has decided now is an appropriate time to review all options for its 54% stake in Bougainville
Copper," said Rio Tinto, which is still reviewing the implications of the mining bill.

Page151of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.About 27% of Bougainville Copper is owned by private shareholders. Some economists question the
viability of the mine if Rio were to decide to walk away.

"Rio Tinto is large enough to have done their sums, looking at the costs of benefits, so I don't know if
we will see a new player on the scene" if they can't make it work, said Satish Chand, a professor of
finance at the University of New South Wales.
Chinese buyers have proven interested in major copper deposits, though, as they look to feed a
voracious appetite for the industrial metal in the world's No. 2 economy.

Guangdong Rising Assets Management has been mulling a takeover of PanAust Ltd., an Australian
company that is about to acquire Glencore PLC's majority stake in the Frieda River project, another
major copper deposit in Papua New Guinea.
Bougainville Copper has estimated it would take between five and seven years to reopen the Panguna
mine, should it win approvals and secure financing. A 2012 study forecast a capital expenditure budget
of US$5.2 billion was needed to get the site back into production.
It also estimated there was at least another 5 million tons of copper and 19 million ounces of gold to
be mined at the site, sustaining operations for more than two decades.

But many landowners oppose the reopening of the mine, and have been demanding more
compensation for past environmental damage along the Jaba River.

"At the moment, a lot of income is earned through exports of cocoa, and the government will need to
look at the impact the mine, and so-called Dutch disease, may have on agriculture," said Mr. Chand.

Write to Rhiannon Hoyle at rhiannon.hoyle@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

August 18, 2014 04:58 ET (08:58 GMT)

CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

bgnvl : Bougainville Copper Ltd | rtz : Rio Tinto PLC | rtzcra : Rio Tinto Group | craaus : Rio Tinto Ltd
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | imet : Mining/Quarrying | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | i2114 : Copper
Ore/Nickel Ore Mining
c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncmac : Commodities Asset Class News | neqac : Equities Asset Class
News | ntop : Top Wire News | nttwn : Today's Top Wire News | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | ndj : Dow Jones Top Stories | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin :
FC&E Industry News Filter | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis
papng : Papua New Guinea | austr : Australia | china : China | eurz : Europe | apacz : Asia Pacific |
asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | pacisz : Pacific
Islands
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document DJDN000020140818ea8i000op

Page152of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.