Industry Insight Industry comment by James Wall Managing director Financial Institutions Group Commonwealth Bank

SE
HD

BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Work Space
Industry Insight Industry comment by James Wall Managing director Financial Institutions
Group Commonwealth Bank
James Wall
809 words
5 November 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
3
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

As their pool of investment funds grows, Australian pension and investment institutions are
increasingly looking overseas in their search to match their long-term liabilities with comparable
long-term assets.
At the same time, there is a growing desire among overseas investors to buy into large-scale
Australian infrastructure opportunities, such as the privatisation of government utility assets in
Queensland and New South Wales.

Both these trends, and the increasing importance of cross-border trade, have brought the issue of
managing foreign currency risk back into sharp relief.

While managing volatility is an important part of any strategy, the increasing requirement to transact in
currencies such as the Chinese RMB adds new levels of complexity, and requires new platforms and
solutions to satisfy this need.

Much of the fund management industry in Australia involves superannuation and retirement savings.
The liability they are accumulating is a long-term liability, and institutions are looking for longer-dated
assets to match these liabilities.

To achieve this, we see the desire among these institutions to invest offshore becoming more
prominent. On top of that, many superannuation funds are becoming more directly involved in buying
and managing these assets.Foreign currency exposure

According to Chris Loong, executive director of institutional FX at Commonwealth Bank: "Typically,
the first thing superannuation funds are doing is making a choice about a particular offshore asset.

"They are selecting from a range of traditional assets like global bonds and equities, and increasingly
from assets such as infrastructure and property. Of course, once they make that decision, they are
also taking on foreign currency exposure.

"They need to be aware of that exposure, how they manage it, and what it means – not just for a
specific portfolio – but also for the overall portfolio."

Increases in global trade are also an important consideration. Last year, global two-way trade
between Australia and China topped $150 billion.

According to Mono Ganguli, Commonwealth Bank's executive director of client risk solutions, "There
is an increasing use of RMB-denominated instruments in risk mitigation. When you extrapolate, just
by the sheer size of China's economy and the wealth that is moving back and forth between China
and other countries including Australia, it's an important consideration."

Page131of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Investment in resources projects was obviously an important part of that, but increasingly, as those
projects shift from development to production, investment is shifting into assets like utilities and social
infrastructure. Investors buying into Australian assets bring different mindsets to their approach. Some
are happy to take unhedged positions because they are looking for exposure to the Australian
currency and economy.

Others, however, may wish to hedge the principal and choose to focus on hedging the flows when
they repatriate profits or diversify their Australian investments. "Either way, they are becoming more
sophisticated at recognising those exposures, aggregating them and then managing them," Mr Loong
said.

"Some superannuation funds are also considering whether they should directly execute foreign
exchange transactions themselves and manage these in-house. Large funds face a choice. Are they
taking on too much operational risk? Do they have the legal and regulatory infrastructure? What is the
cost of setting up the hardware, software and systems? And of course, do they have the right
people?"Managing risk

Companies with currency exposures have to decide their best strategy and determine the risk for the
whole portfolio. "It's one thing to say your global bond portfolio is always traditionally fully hedged
back to the AUD, but what does that mean in combination firstly with the exposures from their other
global assets, and then especially when combined with their domestic assets?" Mr Loong said.

For an organisation like CBA, it is important to empower our customers to manage these risks through
the delivery of world-class platforms to help companies meet these challenges.

The bank's multicurrency program is doing just that. By enabling our entire core banking platform with
the ability to transact in multiple currencies, we are providing customers with foreign currency
requirements access to features previously reserved for Australian dollar transactions, according to
Mr Nick Tsotras, managing director of global transaction services.
"Now, for the first time in Australia, we will have real time transaction data for customers with foreign
currency accounts, which they will be able to open and maintain online."

"Our business customers will see the introduction of features, such as sweeping and pooling of their
foreign currency accounts, creating an enhanced liquidity management solution, which is a unique
capability. The end result is a much-improved customer experience that provides our customers with
greater visibility and control over their foreign currency," Mr Tsotras said.
This content is produced by the Commonwealth Bank of Australia in commercial partnership with
The Australian Financial Review.

CO
IN
NS
RE

PUB
AN

ctb : Commonwealth Bank of Australia
i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | i81402 : Commercial Banking
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141104eab500023

Page132of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.