LNG hopeful closes in on US terminal

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
LNG hopeful closes in on US terminal

Angela Macdonald-Smith
591 words
10 March 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
24
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Gas Small-cap 'winning over sceptics'

Aspiring LNG project developer Liquefied Natural Gas is close to scoring a coup over its many larger
rivals in the crowded US gas export sector, expecting to reach a milestone within weeks in the
complex regulatory process for its $US3.5 billion terminal venture in Louisiana.

Managing director Maurice Brand said the critical filing with the US Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission for the Magnolia LNG terminal was on track to be made in April, setting the first phase of
the project on track for a potential final go-ahead in 2015.

LNG Ltd's progress on its Magnolia project comes as pressure builds on the US government to
accelerate the pace of approvals of gas exports, especially in the wake of the crisis in Crimea that
could threaten Russian exports to Europe.

If junior meets its targeted date for FERC filing, the Magnolia venture could be just the sixth US LNG
export venture to reach that point, of the almost 40 proposed around the country.

Significantly, however, it could also be the first project approved as a "greenfield" venture that has not
been converted from an LNG import terminal.

"That's really a big milestone for us," Mr Brand said of the expected FERC filing.

The timing sets up the Australian-listed small-cap to participate as early as 2018 in the shale
gas-fuelled wave of US LNG exports set to hit world markets as early as next year when the most
advanced project, Cheniere Energy's Sabine Pass venture, also in Lake Charles, is due to start
operations.

LNG Ltd's ambitions in the US, where it will operate as a toll processor of gas rather than a shipper,
have been met with scepticism by some investors after the company's earlier plans for LNG export
ventures in Queensland and elsewhere failed to eventuate.

But the venture has notched up successes in signing up some major customers, including US power
giant AES Corporation last week, and is backed by private equity player Stonepeak to the tune of
$US660 million of equity. BNP Paribas is arranging debt financing.

It has also just doubled the volume of gas it is able to export to countries with a free trade agreement
with the US.

Mr Brand, who is also joint chief executive alongside Yao Guihua, a representative of LNG Ltd's
biggest shareholder, the technology arm of Chinese oil giant CNPC, said the company was "slowly"
winning over the sceptics.

Foster Stockbroking has a "buy" recommendation on the stock, and a 70¢ price target.

Page161of270©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AES is the fourth customer for the Magnolia project, following international trader Gunvor, Spain's Gas
Natural Fenosa and Canadian private equity firm West Face Capital.
The accords cover 7 million tonnes a year of the 8 million tonnes a year of total capacity planned at
the terminal in Lake Charles. Mr Brand said talks were advanced with other potential customers for the
remaining 1 million tonnes.

LNG Ltd has managed to mostly sidestep the debate raging in the US over LNG exports, as it has
focused on customers that are primarily targeting countries that have free trade agreements with the
US, for which export approvals are much easier compared with non-FTA exports.

However, the tense situation in Crimea has added momentum to the push for more non-FTA
approvals, with Congressional Republicans last week joining ExxonMobil and other majors in urging
an acceleration in clearances.

NS

RE

PUB
AN

c312 : External Markets | e512 : Physical Trade | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News |
e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
usa : United States | austr : Australia | crimea : Crimea | namz : North America | apacz : Asia Pacific |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | eeurz : Central/Eastern Europe | eurz :
Europe | ukrn : Ukraine | ussrz : CIS Countries
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020140309ea3a0001h

Page162of270©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.