RWE (CM) W Technologies, Inc Joint Venture Partner, 1World Direct Ltd, Announces...

HD
WC 363 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

RWE (CM) W Technologies, Inc Joint Venture Partner, 1World Direct Ltd, Announces...

5 March 2014
Resources News (RWE)
RESNEW
English
Copyright 2014 RWE Australian Business News Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved.

TD

RWE (CM) W Technologies, Inc Joint Venture Partner, 1World Direct Ltd, Announces International
eWallet

Sydney - Wednesday - March 05 (RWE) - W Technologies, Inc [PINKSHEETS: WTCG] announced today
that newly-signed Joint Venture Partner, 1World Direct Ltd Hong Kong, has signed a marketing
agreement with Total Access Payments, a Hong Kong corporation.

1World Direct Ltd has moved forward to provide its customers with a fully-developed and operational
eWallet and pre-paid debit card program, both co-branded and private labeled.

This agreement with TAP enables 1World Direct Ltd to be an international solution as a global card
services and transaction facilitator for Network Marketing Companies, providing a two-way, pay- in and
pay-out international solution which costs the merchant very little and lowers overall banking costs for
distributors.

In greater Asia, this simplifies payroll for governments, merchants, temporary or permanent staffing
companies and non-profits with geographically diverse outreach.

It gives the "Unbanked" population 100% approval for applicants for virtual account and optional debit
card as long as they have valid government-issued photo identification.

These cards enable shopping or online bill-payments and eliminate money order fees, the cost of
postage, Western Union fees, and check cashing fees.

W Technology is dedicated to open up global opportunities and welcomes this new development with our
newly-signed JV partner, 1World Direct Ltd Creating border-less streams of business and rewards to our
shareholders is our corporate mission as a global marketing company.

About W Technologies, IncW Technologies, Inc, whose stock is publicly traded under the symbol
[PINKSHEETS: WTCG], is a diversified holding company with the mission to develop, manage and
finance emerging companies.

W Tech will be involved in the development of new social media and digital advertising technologies,
on-line shopping and payment solutions, new environmentally-safe oil and gas recovery technologies,
new clean water technologies, financial services involving residential and commercial real estate and
other emerging markets.
The company expects to bring a paradigm shift in the use of these new technologies in the respective
business sectors and to develop new methods to finance its affiliated companies.

ENDS

CO imscoi : W Technologies, Inc.
IN
NS

i97912 : Gambling Industries | ilea : Leisure/Arts/Hospitality
c184 : Joint Ventures | c32 : Advertising | c18 : Ownership Changes | c31 : Marketing | cactio : Corporate
Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E
Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE

Page196of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB RWE Australian Business News Pty Ltd
AN

Document RESNEW0020140305ea3500033

Page197of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.