Thursday’s recipe for success

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

EARLY GENERAL NEWS
Thursday’s recipe for success

SHAN GOODWIN
382 words
16 January 2014
The Land
FTLAND
16
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

CONVINCED there was a global market for his product from the customer feedback he was
receiving, Christopher Dean bought an around-the-world ticket, packed a bag of samples and
literature, and turned up on the doorsteps of pharmacies and natural health stores.

"I had no appointments. I just struck up conversations with owners and managers," he said.

"Overwhelmingly I got positive reinforcement about the viability of the product and the lack of
competing products."
At its peak, his company, Thursday Plantation, which kicked off in a small way about 40 years ago
on the North Coast, exported to 35 different countries.
When it expanded through the acquisition of Greenridge Health and aromatherapy range
SunSpirit, Thursday Plantation became TP Health.

It was sold to New Zealand health supplement giant Thompsons, whose boss Roger Sanderson
had visions of making it Australasia's biggest complementary health care company.

That plan struggled and Todd Capital stepped in five years ago when Integria Healthcare was born.

Thursday Plantation, with its range of 30 products, today remains the number one brand in
Integria's stable of 12 complementary health labels.

Today, 65 per cent of Thursday Plantation product is sold domestically and the rest is exported,
with the big overseas markets being the US, Canada, the United Kingdom, New Zealand, South
Africa and Asia.
Acne gel and foam in Hong Kong is the star as the biggest selling acne treatment product in that
country.

In the past six months, 86,000 units of 10 gram acne gel and 30,000 units of acne foam were sold
in Hong Kong, said Integria's operations manager at Ballina Reece Ryan.
In the past year, 70,000 units of 10 millilitre pure tea tree oil have also gone to Hong Kong.
"We are now setting our sights on China, where we see huge potential, but dealing with regulatory
processes is proving a challenge," he said.

Mr Ryan has been with Thursday Plantation for 25 years.

When he started, sales amounted to $200,000 annually.
When Thursday Plantation Health sold, the label was turning over $24 million.

In recent years it has still grown at as much as 30 per cent annually.

Page132of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CO
IN

RE
PUB
AN

thrsdp : Thursday Plantation
i258 : Cosmetics/Toiletries | icnp : Consumer Goods | ipcare : Personal Care Products/Appliances |
ialtmed : Alternative Health Practitioners | i951 : Health Care/Life Sciences | iphhp : Healthcare
Provision
nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FTLAND0020140124ea1g0001p

Page133of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.