Residential Property Investors Still Confident, Buying -- ANZ -- Market Talk

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Residential Property Investors Still Confident, Buying -- ANZ -- Market Talk

1,492 words
17 October 2014
09:57
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

2249 GMT [Dow Jones]--Residential property investors are still confident, growing and looking to buy
more properties despite rising interest rates -- but many would consider selling up in the event of
proposed new regulations, ANZ says in a note released alongside its ANZ Property Investment Survey.
ANZ adds 52% of all respondents in the survey cite government regulations and tax as their biggest
worry, up from 37% two years ago. "One in three say Reserve Bank proposals that would require banks
to treat investors with more than five properties as commercial customers would impact their investment
strategy -- mostly by not buying new properties, or by selling." ANZ adds many also raised concerns
about the proposed introduction of a "warrant of fitness" for rental properties. (lucy.craymer@wsj.com)

2238 GMT [Dow Jones]--Deutsche Bank expects Australian 3Q inflation to be benign despite recent
history showing the period July to September can produce high inflation outcomes. Phil O'Donaghoe,
economist at Deutsche Bank, said the last six 3Q outcomes have averaged a jump of 1.0%. But the
repeal of the government's carbon tax in July has prompted energy retailers to materially reduce retail
prices for gas and electricity, he said. Utility costs will also have been held down by a water bill rebate
initiative introduced by the Victorian government in the quarter, he added. Deutsche Bank is forecasting a
CPI rise of 0.4% in 3Q vs 2Q, rising 2.2% from a year earlier. The data are due Wednesday.
(james.glynn@wsj.com)

18:08 EDT - Foreign holdings of US Treasury securities hit a record high $6.07T in August, up nearly
$70B from July, as the dollar began its climb to five-year highs in October and the US recovery showed
signs of gaining steam. Japan added more than $11B to its stockpile--largely in bonds and notes--while
China and Belgium, a proxy trader for Beijing, added a net $12B to its holdings. There's a good chance
that September and October data could continue to show new records for foreign holdings of US debt, as
indicated by the steady strengthening of the dollar since August and plummeting bond yields. Amid
increasing worries about emerging markets growth slowing and recession risks in the eurozone rising,
investors have plowed their cash into the relative safety of US debt. (ian.talley@wsj.com)

18:01 EDT - A day of reflection is expected for the Australian dollar ahead of the weekend following wild
swings in global markets this week. No major domestic data is on the slate. Weakness in the iron ore
price, which accounts for 30% of Australian exports should keep the currency contained to ranges. The
Aussie is currently trading at US$0.8751. ANZ currency strategists say the US dollar remains strong and
forecast a near-term range of US$0.8690 to US$0.8830. (james.glynn@wsj.com; @JamesGlynnWSJ)

17:58 EDT - Home builder Oakwood Homes notched an increase in production in September, but its CEO
still sees high prices hindering the market. Oakwood CEO Pat Hamill says the closely held company
started 75 homes in its home state of Colorado last month, up about 20% from September 2013. He says
he has seen more entry-level homes sprouting in the Colorado and Utah markets where Oakwood
operates. However, rising new-home prices continue to deter buyers. "Pricing has expanded quite
dramatically, and costs have, too," Hamill says. "That's kind of taken a little froth out of the market." The
Commerce Department is slated to release data on September home starts Friday morning.
(kris.hudson@wsj.com; @KrisHudsonWSJ)

17:09 EDT - Investors withdrew $549M from junk bond funds in the week ended Oct. 15, after ploughing
$1.28B into them the prior week, says fund tracker Lipper. The market has been whipsawed along with
the drubbing stocks and commodities have received from fears about global growth. Selling has
continued as fund managers look to raise cash to meet redemptions. The risk premium investors were

Page52of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.demanding to own US junk-rated corporate bonds rose to 5.08 percentage point above comparable
Treasurys Wednesday, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index, from 4.66 points at the start of
the week and 3.97 points in mid-September. (katy.burne@wsj.com)

17:00 EDT - Two Cyprus firms were targeted with sanctions from the U.S. Treasury Department, which
said they served as intermediaries between Russian entities and the regime of Syrian President Bashar
al-Assad. One Cypriot firm allegedly worked with a sanctioned Russian bank, Tempbank, to finance
energy deals in Syria, while another firm allegedly contracted with Moscow's official currency-printing
bureau to produce Syrian banknotes, Treasury said. Russian tycoons and financial institutions have long
favored doing business in Cyprus because of its developed court system, Moscow-friendly government
and European credentials. Since Moscow and Damascus are both now the subject of major sanctions
campaigns, it's not unlikely Washington will further probe connections between the two economies,
including the firms that work between them from other countries along the Mediterranean. Meanwhile, the
Treasury is also looking to cut off financing to Assad's most dangerous battlefield foe--the Islamic State.
(william.mauldin@wsj.com)

16:55 EDT - The drop in the price of Mexico's oil exports is not a concern for public finances in the
short-term but could weaken the economy down the road, says Banco Ve Por Mas. Short-term risks are
mitigated by the government's oil hedges along with a revision of the 2015 exchange rate to project more
peso income from oil sales, it says. "The principle risk for Mexico in the medium- and long-term comes
from the heavy dependence on oil for public finances," which represents about a third of the federal
budget. "This could potentially deteriorate the macroeconomic fundamentals of the country, which have
been distinctive of Mexico in periods of volatility and have allowed it to better handle itself than other
economies," the bank says. (laurence.iliff@wsj.com)

16:07 EDT - An 800-page report the federal Nuclear Regulatory Commission staff issued concludes that
Yucca Mountain, a proposed repository site in Nevada, can safely store waste, though the conclusion by
itself doesn't breathe new life into the project, whose review process President Barack Obama put on ice
in 2009 largely at the request of Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D., Nev.) Congress must authorize
funding to the NRC to complete its licensing process to really change the dynamics, which has slightly
better odds of happening if Republicans take the control of the Senate next year. (amy.harder@wsj.com,
@AmyAHarder)

(http://pbadupws.nrc.gov/docs/ML1428/ML14288A121.pdf)

1912 GMT - NZD/USD may consolidate in the Asian session as "a day of reflection beckons following 36
hours of intense market moves," says ANZ Bank. Overall, however, U.S. fundamentals "remain strong"
with overnight data showing September industrial production surged and weekly jobless claims dropped
to a 14-year low. "Fundamentally the U.S. remains strong and we expect USD to remain on trend and to
continue strengthening," it says. The pair is at 0.7944 and ANZ Bank tips a short-term range of
0.7880-0.8020. (rebecca.howard@wsj.com; @FarroHoward)

15:01 EDT - Prime Minister John Key welcomes New Zealand securing a place on the United Nations
Security Council for the 2015-16 term. In three rounds of voting the UN General Assembly elected
Angola, Malaysia, New Zealand, Spain and Venezuela to serve as non-permanent members on the
Security Council for two-year terms beginning 2015. The new members will serve until Dec. 2016. "New
Zealand's success in gaining a place on the Security Council is a victory for the small states that make up
over half the United Nations membership," Key says. The Security Council comprises five permanent
members--Russia, Britain, the US, China and France--and 10 elected temporary members.
(rebecca.howard@wsj.com; @FarroHoward)

14:52 EDT - The Bank of Canada should hold its key overnight rate at 1% next week and through the
spring of 2015, and raise it to 1.50% by the end of 2015, says think tank C.D. Howe Institute's monetary
policy council, a kind of shadow rate-setting panel. The group sees some positive indicators for the
Canadian economy, and building momentum in the US which is key for Canada's outlook. However, their
sentiment was "strongly colored" by a build-up of negative risks from abroad, including the eurozone and
financial market unrest, and they see lower energy prices as a "significant negative influence" on
domestic output and exports. (nirmala.menon@wsj.com, @NirmalaMenon)

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

October 16, 2014 18:57 ET (22:57 GMT)

IN

NS

i85 : Real Estate Transactions | i8500031 : Residential Property Dealing/Owning | ireest : Real Estate |
icre : Real Estate/Construction | irreal : Residential Real Estate
c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | namt : All Market Talk |
ndjmt : Dow Jones Market Talk | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class

Page53of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.News | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E
Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
usa : United States | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North
America

RE

PUB Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
AN

Document DJDN000020141016eaag0045y

Page54of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.