Pernod Ricard USA; Pernod Ricard USA Celebrates Kenwood Wines Acquisition

Pernod Ricard USA; Pernod Ricard USA Celebrates Kenwood Wines Acquisition

HD
WC 1,032 words
PD
10 May 2014
SN
Investment Weekly News
SC
INVWK
PG 437
LA
CY
LP

English
© Copyright 2014 Investment Weekly News via VerticalNews.com

TD

2014 MAY 10 (VerticalNews) -- By a News Reporter-Staff News Editor at Investment Weekly News --
Gary B. Heck, President and Owner, F. Korbel and Bros., said the sale of Kenwood "will allow us to focus
the company's resources on our leading California champagne and brandy business. We are pleased to
hand the stewardship of Kenwood to Pernod Ricard, and expect that they will continue to build upon the
brand's successful legacy."

Founded in 1970, Kenwood has been recognized consistently for producing premium varietals that reflect
the unique characteristics of the world-renowned appellations of Sonoma County. When F. Korbel and
Bros. acquired full ownership of Kenwood Vineyards in 1999, the winery was producing less than 300,000
cases; under F. Korbel and Bros.' management, annual brand sales have increased to more than
500,000 cases.
In addition to further building the Kenwood brand, Fry said Pernod Ricard USA's growth plans include
leveraging the strength of its champagne and sparkling portfolio, which includes Perrier-Jouet and G.H.
Mumm Champagnes and Mumm Napa Sparkling; increasing investment in its core brands, particularly
Brancott Estate, Graffigna and Campo Viejo; repositioning Jacob's Creek; continuing to build Deadbolt, a
California still wine introduced in 2012; and driving an aggressive innovation agenda. "We see continued
growth in the wine and champagne category in the USA, and we are focused on seizing opportunities to
help us grow our share ahead of competition," Fry said. "Consumption is growing, driven by millennials;
consumption of premium wines is growing; and consumers are more receptive to innovations. We're
committed to building brands of desire that meet these trends."
Included in the Kenwood sale are all assets of the Kenwood Vineyards brand including the trademarks,
inventory, winery facilities and estate vineyards, as well as additional acreage of Chardonnay, Cabernet
Sauvignon, Merlot, Sauvignon Blanc, Zinfandel, Syrah, Malbec, Pinot Blanc and Petite Sirah planted
throughout Sonoma County.
The Kenwood winery operations will be managed by Pernod Ricard Winemakers, the premium wine
division of Pernod Ricard.
The sale is expected to close on or before June 30, 2014. About Pernod RicardPernod Ricard is the
world's co-leader in wines and spirits with consolidated sales of (EURO) 8,575 million in 2012/13.
Created in 1975 by the merger of Ricard and Pernod, the Group has undergone sustained development,
based on both organic growth and acquisitions: Seagram (2001), Allied Domecq (2005) and Vin & Sprit
(2008). Pernod Ricard holds one of the most prestigious brand portfolios in the sector: Absolut Vodka,
Ricard pastis, Ballantine's, Chivas Regal, Royal Salute and The Glenlivet Scotch whiskies, Jameson Irish
whiskey, Martell cognac, Havana Club rum, Beefeater gin, Kahlua and Malibu liqueurs, Mumm and
Perrier-Jouet champagnes, as well Jacob's Creek, Brancott Estate, Campo Viejo and Graffigna wines.
Pernod Ricard employs a workforce of nearly 19,000 people and operates through a decentralised
organisation, with 6 "Brand Companies" and 80 "Market Companies" established in each key market.
Pernod Ricard is strongly committed to a sustainable development policy and encourages responsible
consumption. Pernod Ricard's strategy and ambition are based on 3 key values that guide its expansion:
entrepreneurial spirit, mutual trust and a strong sense of ethics.

Page176of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Pernod Ricard is listed on the NYSE Euronext exchange (Ticker: RI; ISIN code: FR0000120693) and is a
member of the CAC 40 index. About Pernod Ricard USA(R) Pernod Ricard USA is the premium spirits
and wine company in the U.S., and the largest subsidiary of Paris, France-based Pernod Ricard SA,
which employs a workforce of nearly 19,000 people worldwide and is listed on the NYSE Euronext
exchange (Ticker: RI). The company's leading spirits and wines include such prestigious brands as
Absolut(R) Vodka, Chivas Regal(R) Scotch Whisky, The Glenlivet(R) Single Malt Scotch Whisky,
Jameson(R) Irish Whiskey, Malibu(R), Kahlua(R) Liqueur, Beefeater(R) Gin, Plymouth(TM) Gin,
Seagram's Extra Dry Gin(R), Martell(R) Cognac, Hiram Walker(R) Liqueurs, Pernod(R), Ricard(R) and
Avion(TM) Tequila (through a joint venture with Tequila Avion); such superior wines as Jacob's Creek(R)
and Brancott Estate(R); and such exquisite champagnes and sparkling wines as Perrier-Jouet(R)
Champagne, G.H. Mumm(TM) Champagne and Mumm Napa(R) sparkling wines.

Pernod Ricard USA is based in New York, New York, and has roughly 850 employees across the country.
Pernod Ricard USA urges all adults to consume its products responsibly and has an active campaign to
promote responsible drinking. For more information on this, please visit: www.acceptresponsibility.org.
About Pernod Ricard Winemakers Pernod Ricard Winemakers, is the premium wine division of Pernod
Ricard - the world's co-leader in wine and spirits. Founded in 2010, Pernod Ricard Winemakers boasts
one of the world's most diverse portfolios of premium wines - featuring brands such as Jacob's Creek in
Australia, Brancott Estate and Stoneleigh from New Zealand, Campo Viejo from Spain and Graffigna from
Argentina. The business also owns and administers several other wine brands worldwide, including
Dead Bolt in the United States and Helan Mountain in China.

With over 2000 employees based across five continents, Pernod Ricard Winemakers is dedicated to
producing high-quality, premium wines and setting the benchmark for innovation in the winemaking world
- launching 14 new products in 2013 alone. About Korbel Established in 1882 in Sonoma County's
Russian River Valley, F. Korbel and Bros. produces the United States' most popular methode
champenoise champagne. But, the true measure of Korbel's success during its 132 years can be seen in
the impact its had on American consumers and its presence at various celebrations throughout the years.
Owned and managed by the Heck family since 1954, Korbel currently makes eleven California
champagnes and a limited amount of still wine. In a separate facility, Korbel also produces one of the
country's most respected brandies. Photos/Multimedia Gallery Available:
http://www.businesswire.com/multimedia/home/20140424005161/en/

Keywords for this news article include: Pernod Ricard USA, Banking and Finance.

Our reports deliver fact-based news of research and discoveries from around the world. Copyright 2014,
NewsRx LLC

CO prnod : Pernod-Ricard SA
IN

NS
RE

i424 : Distilling | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | ialco : Alcoholic Beverages/Drinks
| ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods | ifinal : Financial Services
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
usa : United States | arg : Argentina | austr : Australia | nz : New Zealand | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | lamz : Latin America | namz : North America | samz
: South America

IPD Expanded Reporting
PUB NewsRx.com
AN

Document INVWK00020140502ea5a0009t

Page177of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.