DLA Group: Eten project bond named "Project Finance Deal of the Year" by International Financial Law Review

HD DLA Group: Eten project bond named "Project Finance Deal of the Year" by International Financial

Law Review

WC 928 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

7 April 2014
News Bites - Private Companies
NBPRCO
English
Copyright 2014. News Bites Pty Ltd.

NEWS BITES - PRIVATE COMPANIES
[Company Release]

TD

Planta de Reserva Fria de Generacion de Eten S.A., a Peru-based power generation company, received
the "Deal of the Year" award in the Project Finance category from International Financial Law Review.
DLA Piper advised BTG Pactual as arranger and placement agent of the US$132.8 million project bond
offering by Eten to finance a 20-year concession to build, develop, operate and maintain a new thermal
cold reserve power plant, transmission line and related infrastructure in the Reque district in the province
of Chiclayo, Peru.

Last month, the Eten transaction was also recognized as "Latin American Project Bond Deal of the Year"
and "Overall Latin American Deal of the Year" by Project Finance Magazine. It is the first international
greenfield project bond in Latin America, the first power plant project bond in Latin America and the first
international project bond in Latin America with a partial credit guarantee, making it a landmark transaction
in the project finance field.

The DLA Piper team that represented BTG Pactual was led by Gianluca Bacchiocchi, a partner in the
Corporate and Finance practice in Chicago, and included Fernando Rodriguez-Marin, Jeffrey Susskind
and Diego Harman in New York.

Click here for the full original announcement
COMPANY BACKGROUND

ACTIVITIES
DLA provides legal advisory services. The firm's areas of practice include corporate, banking, litigation,
property and construction, human resources, insurance, shipping, intellectual property, and transport. The
firm is headquartered in London, United Kingdom with additional offices in Belgium, Denmark, France,
Germany, Hong Kong, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, and Russia.

BUSINESS NEWS ROUND UP

02 April 2014: DLA Piper launches leadership alliance for women in Australia
[Company Release] DLA Piper launches its global Leadership Alliance for Women (LAW) program in
Australia this month, with inaugural events being held in Sydney and Perth as part of a global initiative to
provide current and future leaders with opportunities to build valuable business connections, develop client
relationships and strengthen leadership skills for future success. DLA Piper launches its global Leadership
Alliance for Women (LAW) program in Australia this month, with inaugural events being held in Sydney
and Perth as part of a global initiative to provide current and future leaders with opportunities to build
valuable business connections, develop client relationships and strengthen leadership skills for future
success. "Meet the leaders: Inspiring women in business' marks the official LAW launch in Sydney on
Wednesday 9 April.

Click here for the full original announcement

01 April 2014: DLA Piper recognized as a technology "Powerhouse" by BTI Consulting Group

Page178of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.[Company Release] DLA Piper is pleased to announce that the firm has been recognized as a technology
"Powerhouse" by the BTI Consulting Group in its newly published 2014 BTI Client Relationship Scorecard.
DLA Piper is pleased to announce that the firm has been recognized as a technology "Powerhouse" by
the BTI Consulting Group in its newly published 2014 BTI Client Relationship Scorecard. BTI also ranked
DLA Piper number 20 out of 650 law firms serving large clients for having the best client relationships,
placing the firm on the "Power Elite" list. Between March and July 2013, BTI conducted interviews with
300 corporate counsel at large and Fortune 1000 companies about what law firm activities drive superior
client relationships.

Click here for the full original announcement
01 April 2014: DLA Piper plays lead role advising on the Mersey Gateway project
[Company Release] DLA Piper has advised Halton Borough Council on the Pound600 million Mersey
Gateway Project, a major scheme to build a new six-lane toll bridge over the Mersey between Runcorn
and Widnes. DLA Piper has advised Halton Borough Council on the Pound600 million Mersey Gateway
Project, a major scheme to build a new six-lane toll bridge over the Mersey between Runcorn and Widnes.
One of the leading project finance mandates in the UK at present, the DLA Piper team advised on the
procurement of a private sector partner for the design, build, financing, operation and maintenance of the
new 1 km long cable-stayed bridge over the River Mersey and tolling of the crossings. This major project
saw the team provide advice on planning, land acquisition, compulsory purchase orders, tolling,
legislative frameworks and the implementation of new legislation, as well as providing strategic advice on
the procurement process, structural approaches and bespoke documentation for the bridge. The
multi-disciplinary DLA Piper team comprised lawyers from the firm's Finance & Projects, IPT, Real Estate
and Employment groups across its Manchester, Liverpool, Leeds and London offices.

Click here for the full original announcement

01 April 2014: DLA Piper successfully defends St. Jude Medical in guidewire patent infringement case
[Company Release] DLA Piper has secured the dismissal of patent infringement claims against
subsidiaries of St. Jude Medical Inc., a global medical device manufacturer, by device maker Volcano
Corp. DLA Piper has secured the dismissal of patent infringement claims against subsidiaries of St.

Click here for the full original announcement

31 March 2014: Israeli Investors And Industry Leaders Gather At Dla Piper's 2nd Annual Global Real
Estate Conference In Tel Aviv
[Company Release] On Monday, March 24, DLA Piper hosted its 2nd Israeli Global Real Estate
Conference in Tel Aviv. The event provided perspectives on current trends and the future outlook of the
real estate markets in Europe, Asia and the United States for Israeli-based companies seeking to diversify
their real estate capital investments.

Click here for the full original announcement

CO banpac : Banco BTG Pactual S.A. | diblup : DLA Piper | btgbrz : BTG Investments LP
IN

i831 : Financial Investments | i83108 : Investment Advice | i835 : Legal Services | ibcs :
Business/Consumer Services | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
c1521 : Analyst Comments/Recommendations | c1522 : Share Price Movement/Disruptions | npress :
Press Releases | c15 : Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat
: Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | uk : United Kingdom | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
| eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | nswals : New South Wales | weurz : Western Europe

NS

RE

IPD ACTIVITIES; BUSINESS NEWS ROUND UP
PUB News Bites Pty Ltd (Europe)
AN Document NBPRCO0020140407ea470005l

Page179of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.