Baosteel, Aurizon bid $1.3b on mine

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Baosteel, Aurizon bid $1.3b on mine

Du Juan
529 words
6 May 2014
China Daily
CHNDLY
15
English
Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Company. All rights reserved.

Joint offer intends to take strategic advantage of falling iron ore prices
China's Baosteel Group Corp took a further step to secure raw material by bidding for iron ore miner
Aquila Resources Ltd jointly with Australian freight operator Aurizon Holdings Ltd in a deal valued at A
$1.4 billion ($1.3 billion).

According to a statement released Monday by the Chinese steelmaker, Baosteel and Aurizon intend to
make a joint offer of A $3.40 a share, or an unsolicited A $1.4 billion offer in total, to take over what
shares of Aquila they don't currently own.
"The deal is in accordance with the company's strategic goal, which is building an advanced overseas
resources platform through developing western Pilbara's iron ore project and Eagle Downs hard
coking coal project in Queensland," the Baosteel statement said.

If the deal is successfully completed, Baosteel will own as much as 85 percent of Aquila's shares, with
the rest owned by Aurizon.

At a Sydney news conference held Monday, Wu Yiming, chief financial officer of Baosteel Resources
International Co, owned by Baosteel Group, said the company's original investment to acquire a 20
percent stake in Aquila in 2009 was to support Aquila in developing major projects. But he said they
had not seen any new projects in five years.
Wu said the company's new action is to get things started. "It's a pretty smart move to cooperate with
a local infrastructure construction company and management team to explore iron ore projects in
Pilbara," said Jeremy South, global mining leader at Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Ltd.
He said Baosteel has taken advantage of falling iron ore prices, and that Chinese steel companies will
increasingly be investing in Australian mines. With China's steel industry experiencing falling prices
and ongoing deficits, companies have forged different paths to survive the tough times.
"It might be a good time for Chinese steel companies to invest in medium and small-sized Australian
iron ore mines because their corporate valuations are falling down to a reasonable level," said Chang
Xingguo, project director of the international minerals and finance department with the China Mining
Association.

As huge industrial giants, such as Rio Tinto Plc, BHP Billiton Ltd and Fortescue Metals Group Ltd,
increase their capacities and supply delivery this year, many medium and small-sized Australian mines
are facing tight cash flow, Chang said.
"These companies may face more challenges in financing when iron ore prices drop than the large
players like Rio Tinto, which have relatively lower production costs," he said.
But Chang said iron ore prices haven't touched bottom yet. "The iron ore projects will not attract
investors from financial institutions, but it can be a chance to acquire good assets at a low price for
domestic steel companies, if it is within their long-term vision," he said.

Page166of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Under the current backdrop, the China Iron and Steel Association is certainly hoping that the central
government will support the domestic miners through tax reductions in order to break the stranglehold
of the international players.
dujuan@chinadaily.com.cn

CO

IN

RE

PUB
AN

aqures : Aquila Resources Ltd. | baois : Shanghai Baosteel Group Corp | qrntnl : Aurizon Holdings
Limited | dorval : Aurizon Mines Ltd | hclamn : Hecla Mining Co
i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys |
ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i2112 : Gold Ore/Silver Ore Mining | i71
: Railroads | icargo : Freight/Cargo Transport | irailtr : Road/Rail Transport | irfrght : Railroad Freight |
isteel : Steel Production | itsp : Transportation/Shipping
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
China Daily Information Company
Document CHNDLY0020140505ea560000m

Page167of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.