Largest volcanic eruption in human history changed the 19th century as much as Napoleon

HD Largest volcanic eruption in human history changed the 19th century as much as Napoleon
BY Gillen D'Arcy Wood, Director of Sustainability Studies Initiative in the Humanities, Professor of English at

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

WC 1,198 words
PD 7 April 2014
SN The Conversation
SC CONVAU
LA
CY Copyright 2014. The Conservation Media Group.
LP

English

TD

Most have heard of the Battle of Waterloo, but who has heard of the volcano called Tambora? No school
textbook I’ve seen mentions that only two months before Napoleon’s final defeat in Belgium on June 18,
1815, the faraway Indonesian island of Sumbawa was the site of the most devastating volcanic eruption
on Earth in thousands of years.

The death toll claimed around 100,000 people, from the thick pyroclastic flows of lava, from the tsunami
that struck nearby coasts, and from the thick ash that blanketed South-East Asia’s farmlands, destroyed
crops and plunged it into darkness for a week. Both events – Napoleon’s defeat and the eruption – had
monumental impacts on human history. But while a library of scholarship has been devoted to Napoleon’s
undoing at Waterloo, the scattered writings on Tambora would scarcely fill your in-tray.

This extraordinary geological event took place 199 years ago this week, and on the cusp of its bicentenary
Tambora is finally getting its due. With the help of modern scientific instruments and old-fashioned archival
detective work, the Tambora 1815 eruption can be conclusively placed among the greatest environmental
disasters ever to befall mankind. The floods, droughts, starvation, and disease in the three years following
the eruption stem from the volcano’s effects on weather systems, so Tambora stands today as a
harrowing case study of what the human costs and global reach might be from runaway climate change.

Tambora’s greatest claim to infamy lies not in the impact it had on what was then the Dutch East Indies
(which were terrible enough), but its indirect effects on the disease ecology of the Bay of Bengal. The
enormous cloud of sulfate gases Tambora ejected into the atmosphere slowed the development of the
Indian monsoon, the world’s largest weather system, for the following two years.

Drought brought on by the eruption crippled farmers across the Indian subcontinent, but more disastrously
gave rise to a new and deadly strain of cholera. Cholera had been endemic to the Bengal region for
centuries, but this new variant met with no resistance among the human population, spreading across Asia
and eventually the globe. By century’s end, the death toll from the Bengal cholera stood in the tens of
millions.

Just as the biological disaster known as the Black Death defined the 14th century in Europe and the Near
East, so cholera shaped the nineteenth century like no other calamity. Much of our medical science, and
our modern public health institutions, originate in the Victorian-era battle against cholera. But only now,
thanks to renewed scientific interest in the relation between cholera and climate change, can we make the
connection between the worldwide cholera epidemic originating in 1817 and Tambora’s eruption
thousands of miles away.

https://62e528761d0685343e1c-
f3d1b99a743ffa4142d9d7f1978d9686.ssl.cf2.rackcdn.com/files/45690/width668/f7wsjjdg-1396731372.jpg
Tambora’s eruption was heard 2,000km away in Sumatra, and ash fell metres deep. Xavax, CC BY-SA
Tambora’s ripple effects were felt across the globe. In southwest China, the outlying mountainous
province of Yunnan suffered terribly from the cold volcanic weather, losing crop after crop of rice to bitter
winds and flooding rains. The situation was so extreme that desperate Yunnanese resorted to eating white
clay, while parents sold their children in the town markets, or killed them out of mercy.

In the aftermath of this three-year famine, Yunnan farmers turned to a more reliable cash crop – opium – to
ensure their families’ survival against future disasters. Within a few decades, opium was being grown all
across Yunnan, while opium processing technology and expertise drifted south into the remote mountains
of modern-day Burma and Laos. The “golden triangle” of international opium production was born.

Page215of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.If the Tambora disaster persists in cultural memory at all, it is as the “Year Without a Summer,” 1816,
when crops failed across Europe and in New England, and Mary Shelley, stranded in a gloomy villa on
Lake Geneva with the poets Percy Shelley and Lord Byron, wrote her storm-lashed classic Frankenstein.
As it turns out, however, the indirect ripple effects of Tambora – what climate scientists call
“teleconnections” – were even more historically significant. Cholera and opium are two examples, another
is Arctic exploration.

One of the paradoxical effects of a major tropical eruption is that while the planet in general is cooled by
the blanket of volcanic dust that drifts from the equator to the poles, the Arctic itself is drastically warmed
owing to changes in wind circulation and north Atlantic ocean currents. This anomaly was only discovered
after the 1991 eruption of Mount Pinatubo in the tropical Philippines, the first observed with the benefit of
modern climatological instruments.

In 1817 and 1818, the British Admiralty began to receive exciting reports from whaling captains of a
remarkable loss of sea ice in around Greenland. Huge icebergs from a broken icepack were spotted
floating as far south as Ireland and New York. The prospect of a northwest passage for shipping to the
East – a holy grail England had sought since Elizabethan times – beckoned once more. With a
generation’s naval captains still hungry for glory but now languishing onshore after the defeat of Napoleon,
the Admiralty launched an expensive and ultimately disastrous 50-year-long campaign to chart the elusive
northwest passage.

The British could not have known then, of course, that Tambora had caused the Arctic to melt, and that the
climatic impacts of a tropical eruption persist for no longer than three years. The Arctic refroze just in time
for the arrival of Britain’s first polar expedition under Captain John Ross in 1818. Years of fruitless,
icebound sallies into the polar seas culminated in the tragic Franklin expedition of the 1840s, when all
hands were lost, and the heroic age of British Arctic exploration came to an end.

It is time to recognise Tambora as the Napoleon of eruptions. The implications – for historians – of a
revised, volcanic nineteenth century are immense. As with the global cholera epidemic, and the growth of
a Chinese opium empire, Victorian-era polar exploration might not have happened at all, or would have
evolved in an entirely different direction, had it not been for Tambora’s climate-wrecking detonation in
1815.

For two long centuries, the connections between this major volcanic disaster and human history have
been obscured by two factors: the limitations of scientific knowledge, and by our narrow, anthropocentric
vision that seeks out only human causes for human events, neglecting the influence of environmental
change. Now, in the 21st century, as we begin to appreciate more profoundly the interdependence of
human and natural systems, the lesson of a 200-year-old climate emergency may finally be learned: a
changing climate changes everything.
Gillen D'Arcy Wood does not work for, consult to, own shares in or receive funding from any company or
organisation that would benefit from this article, and has no relevant affiliations.

NS

gchlra : Cholera | gedu : Education | gcat : Political/General News | ghea : Health | gmed : Medical
Conditions
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB The Conversation Media Group Limited
AN Document CONVAU0020140408ea470000s

Page216of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.