Asian Office Space Sees Flood of Global Money; Cushman & Wakefield Says Purchases Double; Korea, Australia See Highest Demand

SE
HD

BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
ED
LA
CY
LP

TD

Markets
Asian Office Space Sees Flood of Global Money; Cushman & Wakefield Says Purchases
Double; Korea, Australia See Highest Demand
By Wayne Arnold
915 words
6 August 2014
18:29
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

HONG KONG—Global investors pumping funds into Asia in search of higher returns have added office
space to their shopping list, new data from Cushman & Wakefield indicate.

Lured by low global interest rates and rising evidence of global recovery, foreign investors bought office
space for a record $6.16 billion in the region in the second quarter, according to the U.S.-based
commercial-real-estate agency, more than double what they bought in the same three months of
2013.

"There's a lot of capital just floating around," said Sigrid Zialcita, Cushman & Wakefield's managing
director for Asian research in Singapore. "It's a vote of confidence for the region. They look at
Asia-Pacific as a future growth market."

South Korea and Australia are at the forefront of demand, Ms. Zialcita said. She said office rentals yield
between 5% and 7% a year in those markets. Foreign purchases in South Korea more than doubled in
the second quarter to $1.3 billion, led by the $497.7 million purchase in June of the 22-story K Twin
Towers in Seoul's central business district by KKR & Co. and Hong Kong-based private-equity firm
LIM Advisers from Korean property fund manager Vestas Investment Management.
Blackstone's $403 million purchase of a 50% stake in Sydney's 33-storey Westpac Place from local
property developer Mirvac Group topped the $3 billion in foreign buying in Australia.
Foreign investors also more than doubled their purchases in China, to $931 million, defying a 35%
decline in overall buying of office space, according to Cushman & Wakefield.
Hong Kong-based private-equity firm Gaw Capital in April paid $928 million to buy Pacific Century
Place, an office-cum-residential building in Beijing's posh Sanlitun shopping district.
The surge in foreign demand for Asia's commercial real estate is part of booming demand for assets
around the region -- and in emerging economies world-wide—as record-low interest rates in the U.S.,
Europe and Japan drive investors into higher-risk assets abroad to offset low returns at home.

Emerging markets saw $44 billion in portfolio inflows in July, according to the Institute of International
Finance in Washington, the highest monthly inflows in two years, bringing total investment in emerging
markets to $195 billion so far this year, nearly equaling the $208.9 billion for all of 2013.

The strong flows into riskier assets earned warnings last month from the U.S. Federal Reserve and the
International Monetary Fund that investors may be excessively optimistic. Central bankers in emerging
markets worry not only that rapid inflows of "hot money" will drive inflation and create asset-price
bubbles, but that a rapid reversal could send their currency plunging, potentially causing financial
crises.

Page60of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Concerns about such risks are rising as improving U.S. economic growth gives rise to predictions that
the Fed will eventually start raising rates. Not only might that lure global funds back to the relative
safety of the U.S., but higher rates could force heavily indebted investors to sell down riskier assets,
sparking a correction in prices.

Asian central banks are steeling themselves for such risks have amassed almost $7.5 trillion in
foreign-currency reserves. Authorities in Hong Kong and Singapore have gone further, reining in
property speculation by imposing restrictions on investment and property-related lending.
China and South Korea recently lifted restrictions on housing investment in a bid to arrest falling prices
and slowing growth. "The slowdown is mostly on the residential side," said Christie Ju, an analyst at
Jefferies in Hong Kong, "so the stimulus is unlikely to come to commercial property."

Nevertheless, hopes for improved economic growth and higher yields drew foreign investors into
commercial office space in both countries.

Foreign investors now dominate buying in South Korea, according to Cushman & Wakefield,
accounting for almost 70% of all purchases in the second quarter. Ms. Zialcita said foreigners were
enticed not only by relatively high yields, but also by hopes that an improving global economy would
buoy demand for Korean exports and the need for office space as companies expand.

A similar logic is driving foreign demand for other Korean assets. Foreigners have bought at least $4.4
billion in Korean stocks so far this year, according to Jefferies. And as of June, U.S. investors had
bought half of the Korean bonds sold globally in 2014, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Based on Dealogic data that would represent $10.7 billion in investments.
The $3 billion of Australian office space foreigners bought was also more than double their purchases
last year. Ms. Zialcita said that despite the fading out of Australia's mining boom, rental yields of
roughly 6% in Sydney and Melbourne and 7% in Perth kept foreign demand strong.

"Even if interest rates go up," she said, "the spread is still very attractive."

Canada is the largest source of buying into markets around Asia, according to Cushman & Wakefield,
accounting for $1.9 billion in purchases in the second quarter. Much of that was due to the conclusion
of deal for the assets in Australia's Commonwealth Office Property Fund, in which the Canada
Pension Plan Investment Board was one of two buyers. Canada was followed by the $1.8 billion in
purchases by investors from the U.S.

cuwa : Cushman & Wakefield Inc | gianec : Giovanni Agnelli and C SAPA | ifi : Exor SpA
i8500021 : Office Real Estate | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icireal : Commercial/Industrial Real
Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ireest : Real Estate
ereal : Real Estate Markets | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | c18 : Ownership Changes |
cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators |
ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News
Filter
usa : United States | skorea : South Korea | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz
: Australia/Oceania | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America
Markets Main
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document WSJO000020140806ea86003h3

CO
IN

NS

RE

IPD
PUB
AN

Page61of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.