Cream of the crop

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

AGRIBUSINESS
Cream of the crop

The Punter
445 words
27 November 2014
The Land
FTLAND
46
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

MAYBE it was last week's much-talked-about free trade deal with China.
Maybe it was the fact that the company has moved quickly and has already bought a third dairy
farm.

Whatever the reason, shares in Australian Dairy Farms (ASX code AHF) are doing quite nicely,
thank you.
The Punter is now sorry he didn't buy more.
He will get the chance to buy 2500 more next February, at 25 cents each, thanks to the loyalty
options he has qualified for by holding 5000 AHF on Monday this week.

If and it is a big if AHF manages to hold its current price until February, when the options can be
exercised, the Punter will be looking at a profit of around $250 on the loyalty options.

That would give him a return of 18 per cent on his initial investment, which would more than make
up for the fact that Australian Dairy Farms won't be paying dividends in a hurry.

There won't be any dividends coming from Hazelwood Resources (HAZ) in the foreseeable future
either.

The Perth-based ferroalloy producer is majority owner and operator of a ferrotungsten plant in
Vietnam.
It is the largest, most up-to-date plant of its kind outside China.

Hazelwood says it is now a major global player in its specialist market.
Sales are running at around $5 million a quarter.

Unfortunately, production costs are running at nearly $6m a quarter, which is a problem.

Ferrotungsten prices have been weak, which doesn't help.

According to the latest quarterly report, the net cash outflow in the three months to the end of
September left it with only $463,000 in the bank.

Net cash outflow in the current quarter is estimated at a whopping $10.9m.
It is no wonder the revamped board is concentrating on cutting costs as part of a four-part
strategic review.
If, or when, the company can supply its own raw material from its known tungsten deposits in
Australia, it could be a real winner.

Page100of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.But the cash crunch has made the Punter so nervous he has reluctantly sold his Hazelwood
stake at a substantial loss.
Meanwhile, another Perth-based resources player, Otis Energy (ASX code OTE) is pressing
ahead with plans to raise at least $2m for its oil and gas activities via a public offer of shares at
three cents each on December 5.

n The Punter has no financial qualifications and no links to the financial services industry. He
owns shares in a number of companies featured in this column.

hwrsau : Hazelwood Resources Limited
i010010502 : Dairy Cattle Farming | i0 : Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | i0100105 : Cattle Farming
| ilsfarm : Livestock Farming | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FTLAND0020141126eabr0001a

CO
IN

RE
PUB
AN

Page101of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.