CuDeco encouraged by preliminary tests in processing foray with Ernest Henry

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
CuDeco encouraged by preliminary tests in processing foray with Ernest Henry

JENNY ROGERS JENNY.ROGERS@NEWS.COM.AU
297 words
25 November 2014
Gold Coast Bulletin
GCBULL
GoldCoast
41
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

GOLD Coast-based copper miner CuDeco says it has had impressive preliminary results from trial
ore processing at the Glencore-owned Ernest Henry copper mine processing plant.
The company said the initial testwork results were “outstanding and surpassed expectations”.

CuDeco last month teamed with mining giant Glencore to supply 22,000 tonnes of ore from its
Rocklands project near Cloncurry for treatment at the Ernest Henry processing plant.
At the time, CuDeco said the agreement could result in a long-term supply agreement. The company
yesterday said the primary sulphide ore was processed in a 30-hour window over two days, testing
handling, crushing, milling, flotation and filtration character-istics through a full-size pro-duction mineral
processing facility.
“CuDeco metallurgists conclude the result demonstrates that the Rocklands primary ore is amenable
to high recovery and as having good metallurgical characteristics through flotation treatment,” the
company said in a statement.
It said the tests found there were no problems processing the ore. The results were “exceptionally
pleasing, given that normally a much longer time is required to settle the circuit down”.
CuDeco at present is mining around 30,000 tonnes of ore a day for supply to China through an
agreement with the government-owned Sinosteel Corporation.
It said it had stockpiled about one million tonnes of material. The company believes four million
tonnes of primary sulphide ore is easily accessible if it locks in favourable long-term sale agreements.
CuDeco has made its first shipment to China of 170 tonnes of various forms of copper concentrate for
testwork in Chinese smelters.CuDeco’s shares closed 2.5¢, or 1.79 per cent higher, at $1.42.

IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2114 : Copper Ore/Nickel Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources |
imet : Mining/Quarrying
gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document GCBULL0020141125eabp00025

Page16of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.