New report reveals Origin, EnergyAustralia and AGL's attack on the Renewable Energy Target

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

New report reveals Origin, EnergyAustralia and AGL's attack on the Renewable Energy Target

694 words
23 June 2014
ForeignAffairs.co.nz
PARALL
English
Copyright 2014. Multimedia Investments Ltd. All rights reserved.

MIL OSI – Source: Greenpeace – Press Release/Statement
Headline: New report reveals Origin, EnergyAustralia and AGL's attack on the Renewable Energy
Target

Greenpeace’s report comes on the day that legislation to repeal carbon pricing laws is reintroduced into
Federal Parliament and on the back of new polling showing that fewer than 1 in 10 Australians support
moves to wind back the Renewable Energy Target.
Footage and stills of the Greenpeace’s campaign launch outside of Origin Energy Headquarters in
Sydney today are available on request (see below).
KEY FINDINGS OF THE REPORT, ‘The Dirty Three – Origin Energy, EnergyAustralia and AGL’s Attack
on Australia’s Renewable Energy Target’. At a critical time in the development of clean energy in
Australia, the big three energy retailers which account for 77 per cent of small electricity customers,
have become ‘The Dirty Three’ – expanding investments in coal and gas, undermining the Renewable
Energy Target and threatening the future of renewable energy in Australia.
The Dirty Three have invested relatively little in renewable energy and continue to invest heavily in
polluting coal and gas generation:
Analysis of company data by Greenpeace’s Investigation Unit shows renewable energy made up only
0.5 per cent of Origin Energy’s and 1.9 per cent of EnergyAustralia’s electricity generation during
2012-13.

AGL does better, with around 15 per cent of electricity generation, but in the past five years has
increased its fossil fuel electricity generation capacity by around 50 per cent.

Analysis of major investments in generating infrastructure over the last five years shows EnergyAustralia
and Origin have dramatically expanded their fossil fuel electricity generation by close to 75 and 87 per
cent respectively and AGL has increased its by just over 50 per cent.
The Dirty Three are undermining the Renewable Energy Target to protect their profits:
The Dirty Three have helped to spread misinformation about the Renewable Energy Target and
perpetuate mistruths which are distorting the public debate, for example:
the Renewable Energy Target is leading to higher electricity prices
meeting the 2020 Renewable Energy Target is not possible
wind and solar energy is unreliable. The report rebuts these claims.
Wind and solar projects have reportedly been frustrated by Origin and EnergyAustralia refusing to issue
the power purchase agreements which renewable energy generators need to ensure they have
customers for their power.

GREENPEACE LAUNCHES CAMPAIGN. The report kicks off the launch of a high profile Greenpeace
campaign focused on “The Dirty Three.” The campaign invites customers of Origin, EnergyAustralia and

Page91of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AGL to petition their power company to support the Renewable Energy Target.It includes a TV
advertisement and grassroots campaigning in the electorates of Prime Minister Tony Abbott, Treasurer
Joe Hockey and Communications Minister Malcolm Turnbull’s electorates.Greenpeace Head of Program
Ben Pearson said, “While Australians are hungry for clean solar and wind power, the top three energy
retailers are working to hold back the nation’s transition to a renewable energy future by undermining
one of our most successful bipartisan policies ever.
“Analysis shows Origin, EnergyAustralia and AGL are expanding investment in coal and gas, exposing
themselves to competition from renewable projects. These companies, some of the largest Australian
polluters, are publicly attacking the target and actively frustrating wind and solar projects.
“The dramatic growth of renewables threatens the profits of the big energy companies and they’re
responding by using their economic and political muscle to weaken the Renewable Energy Target.“After
years spent touting their green credentials, Australians are rightly shocked to find that these big energy
companies are working to erode investment in renewable energy which will ultimately increase
consumer power bills. Many customers have already contacted Greenpeace for advice on options for
switching to alternate energy companies.
“Australia already lags behind other large economies like Germany and China in developing renewables
capacity. Scrapping or reducing the Renewable Energy Target would be foolish. It would risk billions in
renewable investments, increase power bills, forgo Australian jobs and increase carbon emissions,” Mr
Pearson said.

Media Gallery – Footage and Stills of Launch:www.greenpeacemedia.orguser: photos password: green

–

boral : Origin Energy Ltd | sretpl : EnergyAustralia Pty Ltd | gpeaci : Greenpeace International | chlp :
CLP Holdings Ltd
i163 : Electric Power Generation - Alternative Energy | irenewee : Renewable Energy Equipment |
irenewf : Renewable Energy Facility Construction | i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i16101 : Electric Power
Generation | i32 : Machinery | i502 : Heavy Construction | i5020044 : Power Station Construction | iconst
: Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ieutil : Electric Utilities | iindstrls : Industrial Goods | iutil :
Utilities | i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas
gpol : Domestic Politics | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
English

CO

IN

NS
RE
IPD
PUB Multimedia Investments Ltd
AN

Document PARALL0020140623ea6n0002t

Page92of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.