Silence of the Lambie

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Silence of the Lambie

DANIEL MEERS
416 words
21 August 2014
Daily Telegraph
DAITEL
Telegraph
7
English
Copyright 2014 News Ltd. All Rights Reserved

Leaders tell Senator to shut up before serious damage is done
MOTORMOUTH Senator Jacqui Lambie has been told to shut up before Australia’s reputation in China
is severely tarnished.

Business leaders across NSW and Australia urged Ms Lambie, who believes the federal government
should buy missiles to prevent a Chinese invasion, should consider leaving politics if she cannot be
quiet.
Sydney company Sunpac Resources plans to export $10 million in beef to China over the next 12
months, while NSW dairy company Norco has plans to export 20 million litres of milk Australia
Chinese Chamber of Commerce president Peter Huang said Ms Lambie and Clive Palmer were
creating problems for Australia.

“Their big mouths are a big disaster. The claims are unfair and unjustifiable. It is not acceptable for a
politician to say that,” he said.
China’s relationship with Australia is worth $150 billion a year. Chinese-born NSW MP Ernest Wong
said both Ms Lambie and Mr Palmer had to retract comments because it had been “big news’’ in China.
Mr Wong said Chinese media had not missed the comments and Chinese business would monitor
future remarks out of Australia. “Make no mistake, this is big news in China,’’ he said. “They are also
endangering Australian jobs as China is one of NSW’s most important trading and business partners.”
The comments came as Palmer United Leader Clive Palmer made a dash to Western Australia to meet
his Chinese-born senator Dio Wang — and ensure the rookie Senator would not leave the party.

Mr Palmer’s party yesterday began to show signs of cracks. He hung up on a radio host when he
refused to answer questions about whether he agreed with Ms Lambie’s views about a Chinese
invasion. He denied his mission to Western Australia was to ensure Mr Wang would not defect. “We just
had a drink, that’s all,” Mr Palmer said.
“I came to Perth to visit Dio and have a look around. I’m Australian. I can do that. We didn’t discuss
(defecting) at all.’’ Mr Palmer refused to retreat from his comments that the Chinese government were
“mongrels’’.

Prime Minister Tony Abbott said the comments from both were wrong: “All politicians when we open our
mouths should be constructive and sometimes people are, sometimes people aren’t. Mr Palmer’s
outburst on ABC TV the other night was just over the top, shrill, and wrong.’’ANDREW BOLT P13

NS

gcat : Political/General News

Page88of343©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

PUB
AN

austr : Australia | china : China | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document DAITEL0020140820ea8l0004t

Page89of343©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.