Apache’s exit hurdle as oil hits the skids

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Apache’s exit hurdle as oil hits the skids

Peter Klinger
365 words
2 December 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
First
1
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

Oil’s sudden and spectacular collapse has sparked market chatter that Apache’s proposed exit from
Australia could yet hit a snag.

Under pressure from its own investors to refocus on the supposedly higher-margin US onshore
shale business, Apache could run into trouble attracting suitable bids for its WA domestic gas
operation and a stake in the Wheatstone LNG operation.

Apache was yesterday not commenting on the sales process though some insiders have expressed
surprise a deal with supposed bid frontrunner Woodside Petroleum has not yet been announced.
As oil and gas stocks led by Woodside endured a second successive day of sharp share price falls,
they were joined by copper, nickel, gold and iron ore players on a rotten day for the resources
sector as investors worried about Chinese, and therefore global, growth prospects.

Attention is also starting to switch to BHP Billiton, which is already under pressure because of a
weak iron ore price — partly because of its own ramp-up of Pilbara volumes at a time of weaker
Chinese demand — only for the price of its second-most important commodity, oil, to now also
crumble.
The falling oil price — the West Texas Intermediate benchmark slumped to a five-year low below
$US65 a barrel over the weekend — is the result of the Saudi Arabia-dominated OPEC cartel’s
decision to maintain its oil output, despite the weak price.

The OPEC move is seen as the cartel’s intent to protect its market share in the wake of rising shale
oil output from onshore US operations, where BHP is one of the biggest players.

BHP petroleum boss Tim Cutt told investors five weeks ago his shale business was “very low on the
cost curve”.
Investors in Australia’s most valuable company are taking a different view, slicing 8.5 per cent or
$8.8 billion from its market capitalisation in the past two trading days.
Woodside has shed $3.5 billion over two days and Santos $2.5 billion. It has also been bleak for
gold miners led by Newcrest Mining and copper and nickel stocks such as Sirius Resources.

CO
IN

NS
RE

wodpet : Woodside Petroleum Ltd | apche : Apache Corp
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural
Gas/Oil Extraction
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

Page83of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB
AN

West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document TWAU000020141201eac200009

Page84of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.