(AE) Ferret's MOVING FACES

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

(AE) Ferret's MOVING FACES

831 words
11 September 2014
Ralph Wragg Australian Business News
AAPRAW
English
Copyright 2014 RWE AUSTRALIAN BUSINESS NEWS PTY LTD. All Rights Reserved.

Sydney - Thursday - Sep 11: (RWE Australian Business News) - A list of changes of management within
ASX-listed companies.

Moving in ...

* Gerry Williams has been appointed chief executive officer of ComOps Ltd, starting on Wednesday
October 1. Mr Williams joins the company from UXC Red Rock, where he recently became general
manager National Products and Solutions, having been general manager of Managed Services for the
last five years and a member of the Leadership Team. As general manager of Managed Services he led a
business unit with 150 corporate customers, 90 staff and delivered strong growth. Prior to UXC Red
Rock, over a 20-year career in IT, he held a number of roles managing sales, pre-sales, customer
service, implementation and support with companies like Objective Corp and Oracle.
* Prairie Mining Ltd today announced the appointment of Thomas (Tom) Todd as a non-executive
director with Todd Hannigan as his alternate director. In addition, T2 Resources Pty Ltd, an investment
vehicle controlled by Mr Todd and Mr Hannigan, will acquire 2.8m shares. Mr Todd and Mr Hannigan
were formerly the chief financial officer and chief executive officer, respectively, of Aston Resources Ltd.
During this period, they led the growth of Aston from a small private company into one of Australia's
largest publicly listed coal companies. Aston raised a total of $855m in debt and $1.1bn in equity funding
to acquire and fully fund the Maules Creek coal project through to first coal production. In 2011, Aston
merged with Whitehaven Resources Ltd in a deal valued at more than $5bn.

* NuSep Holdings Ltd has appointed Michael Graham as a non-executive director. Mr Graham brings a
wealth of experience to the company. He has been involved in a number of commercial ventures over
the term of his career. Originally qualifying as a company secretary, Mr Graham has worked in mining,
retail and services.

Prakash Patel has resigned as a director.

* PSivida Corp has elected James Barry to its board. Dr Barry, 55, currently serves as executive vice
president and chief operating officer of InspireMD, a global medical device company focused on the
development and commercialisation of cardiovascular products.

* Daniel Moore, president and CEO of Cyberonics, has been appointed to the board of GI Dynamics Inc.
Under his leadership, Cyberonics has experienced seven consecutive years of improved operating profit
and more than doubled its market capitalisation to $US1.5bn. Prior to joining Cyberonics, Mr Moore spent
17 years at Boston Scientific where he held positions of increasing responsibility including roles in sales,
marketing and senior management.

* Jeremy Bond has been appointed as a director of Oklo Resources Ltd. Mr Bond is an investment
manager of Terra Capital, an Australian-based resource fund. He previously worked as a resource
analyst at RAB Special Situations Fund at RAB Capital based in London.

* Alvars Lee Hon Nam has been appointed as a non-executive director of Lamboo Resources Ltd. He is
Hong Kong-based and has over 20 years of experience in advising corporates and working in capital
markets. He has advised on a number of equity capital raisings, restructurings and also on M&A
transactions.

Page297of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Greg Baynton has resigned as a director.

* Affinity Education Group Ltd today announced the appointment of Paul Cochrane as chief financial
officer and company secretary. He brings to Affinity 25 years of financial and commercial experience in
listed companies, most recently as CFO and company secretary at Devine Ltd, a position he held since
2009. He will also bolster Affinity's commercial capability, having spent seven years with Lend Lease until
2008 in the roles of project director and commercial operations manager.
Mr Cochrane will commence on October 20, at which time he will replace existing CFO and company
secretary John Bairstow. Mr Bairstow will remain at Affinity Education in an advisory capacity until the end
of November, to ensure a planned and smooth transition.

* At the second meeting of creditors of Bluestone Global Ltd it was resolved, amongst other things, that
the company be wound up and Mark Uebergang and Craig Shepard be confirmed as liquidators.

Moving On ...

* Craig Douglas McIntosh, CFO at Arowana International Ltd, has resigned as a director of Intueri
Education Group Ltd. Glen William Dobbie, Arowana Group commercial director, has been unanimously
appointed by the board to replace the director position vacated by Mr McIntosh. Mr McIntosh is now the
alternate director for Mr Dobbie.
* Daniel Owen has resigned as company secretary of Boulder Steel Ltd and has been replaced by
Andrew Rowell.
* Zeta Resources Ltd, an entity incorporated in Bermuda and registered as a foreign company, advises
that Mark Pitts is no longer the company secretary Australia, and confirms these appointments: Kim
Armstrong as company secretary and BCB Charter Corporate Services Ltd of Bermuda as assistant
company secretary.
* Following the completion of two years' service as a company secretary of Advanced Energy Systems
Ltd, Elias Farah today advised that he is retiring from the board.

CO
IN

NS

comopa : ComOps Ltd | objcor : Objective Corp Ltd | prinv : Prairie Mining Ltd
i1 : Energy | i111 : Coal Mining | i3302 : Computers/Consumer Electronics | i330202 : Software | ibasicm :
Basic Materials/Resources | icomp : Computing | imet : Mining/Quarrying | itech : Technology
c411 : Management Moves | c41 : Management | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types
| nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB RWE Australian Business News Pty Ltd
AN

Document AAPRAW0020140911ea9b0015p

Page298of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.