Padbury's Oakajee deal terminated

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

CO
IN

RE
PUB
AN

Padbury's Oakajee deal terminated

Michael Ramsey
268 words
30 April 2014
Business News
WABN
English
© Copyright 2014 Business News Pty Ltd.

Less than three weeks after announcing it had secured $US6.47 billion ($6.89 billion) in equity
funding to construct a port and rail network at Oakajee, junior explorer Padbury Mining says the
deal is now dead.

In an announcement to the market after the close of trade today, Padbury said it had terminated a
funding agreeement with entities associated with hair regrowth entrepreneur Roland Bleyer.

The termination of the deal comes after Padbury missed several self-imposed deadlines to reveal
further details of the massive funding agreement.

Padbury's original funding announcement earlier this month did not contain any information on the
identity of its backers or their capacity to provide the funds.
The company's shares skyrocketed in a brief window of trade following the announcement but the
company entered a trading halt later that day as the ASX demanded further details of the deal.

Padbury later revealed it was seeking "information in respect of (the investor's) capacity to meet
their funding obligations" under the terms of a shareholder agreement.
The company today said it would continue to actively explore opportunities to exploit its existing
intellectual property with respect to the Oakajee project.

Premier Colin Barnett last week told reporters he couldn't see "a great deal of substance" behind
Padbury's funding claims, and confirmed that he had not met with the company.
The premier instead expects Chinese giant CITIC Group to take the lead on developing a port and
rail network at Oakajee after an encouraging meeting with the company's chairman in Beijing last
week.

rivgol : Padbury Mining Limited
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2112 : Gold Ore/Silver Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources |
imet : Mining/Quarrying
austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Business News Pty Ltd
Document WABN000020140430ea4u000jh

Page36of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.