Global thermal coal exports down in H1'14, but met coal shipments up

Exclusive

Rohan Somwanshi

SE
HD Global thermal coal exports down in H1'14, but met coal shipments up
BY
WC 1,682 words
PD
SN
SC
VOL Issue: 81959
LA
CY
LP

29 August 2014
SNL Daily Coal Report
DCOAL

English
Copyright 2014. SNL Financial LC

TD

Thermal coal exports from major countries during the first half of 2014 were down 3% year over year,
versus a 5% increase in metallurgical coal shipments in the same period even though met coal mine
closures have been more prevalent than those for thermal mines in terms of both aggregate tonnage and
proportion of the seaborne trade, data from UBS Securities Australia Ltd. showed.
U.S. coal giant Peabody Energy Corp. recently cut 1.5 million tonnes of annual met coal output at the
Burton mine in Queensland, Australia, joining a long list of U.S. and global miners that have reduced
production amid depressed prices.

However, in the first half of 2014, met coal exports from major countries Australia, the U.S. and Canada
totaled 134 million tonnes, up from 127.4 million tonnes in the same period of 2013, according to the
UBS data. On the other hand, thermal coal exports made by Australia, the U.S., Indonesia, South Africa
and Colombia touched 388 million tonnes in the same period, down from 398.4 million tonnes in 2013.
Data from various sources obtained by SNL Energy showed that in the first six months of 2014 coal
shipments from seven major exporting countries accounted for 48.2% of the total coal export targets
estimated for these nations for the 2014 full year.
Total traded seaborne thermal coal demand is expected to grow 1.5% year over year in 2014, reaching
968 million tonnes, according to UBS. Total traded met coal demand is expected to be 307 million
tonnes in 2014, down 3.9% year over year from 2013.
As Australia and Indonesia continue to push coal into the already oversupplied market, which is
subsequently pushing down global coal prices, the focus has been on the world's largest coal consumer,
China.
China in 2014 has taken unprecedented initiatives to restrict coal use, with the government employing a
new coal policy that is expected to result in a 10% industrywide production cut in the country. China, a
net coal importer, has seen the majority of its coal companies lose money due to weaker prices. The
government initiative is specially designed to boost domestic coal sector profitability, and it may also
include a cut to the export tariff or the application of a tariff to imports, UBS said.
Despite China's plans to limit coal consumption, the country will continue to play an important role in the
global seaborne coal market, Helen Lau, senior analyst at UOB Kay Hian Ltd., told SNL Energy. China
remains a heavy-hitter in the global seaborne market, importing roughly 300 million tonnes of coal each
year, Lau said.
China imported 25.1 million tonnes of coal in June, according to MarketRealist. UBS data showed that
China's net thermal coal imports were expected to reach 186.8 million tonnes in 2014, while met coal
imports may total 60 million tonnes.
Another country that is emerging as significant in the international coal market is India, where massive
growth in electricity demand is leading to a perennial coal shortage. According to Morgan Stanley, India
has the potential to become one of the largest coal-importing countries in the medium to long term, given
its structural need to import.

Page85of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Indian companies have set their sights on overseas coal assets for the purpose of shipping coal back to
India. Adani Group's huge coal mine in Australia has received regulatory approval, while Tata Steel Ltd.
and Steel Authority of India Ltd.'s joint venture invited interest for coking coal assets, preferably in
Australia. Indian conglomerate International Coal Ventures Pvt. Ltd., a firm solely created to acquire
overseas coal assets, recently agreed to acquire a coal property from Rio Tinto in Mozambique.
With India's Supreme Court recently declaring more than 200 coal mining licenses illegal, traders expect
the move could spur coal imports into the country. India imported 17.7 million tonnes of coal in June, up
from 15.6 million tonnes in May, according to a Reuters report. UBS expects India's total thermal coal
imports to touch 159.2 million tonnes in 2014.

Australian shipments still going strong
Coal producers in Australia, one of the largest coal-exporting countries in the world, have not scaled back
their shipments, largely because they are bound via the take-or-pay contracts with logistics providers,
under which miners are required to pay for transportation even when they do not ship the coal.

"While several companies have said they're not willing to reduce output, behind the scenes there are lots
of negotiations going on [for the take-or-pay contracts]," Roderick Campbell, an economist at The
Australia Institute, told SNL Energy. "The market seems to think this will take another year or two, and
that seems reasonable to me."

Though some Australian producers are negotiating to reduce production, others — including India's Adani
— are still looking to pump more coal into the market. "With so many players looking to reduce capacity,
you've got heavily leveraged Adani trying to put huge volumes onto the seaborne market," Campbell said.
Adani is developing the 60-million-tonne-per-year Carmichael coal and rail project, which will ship coal to
India.
"Everyone is wondering about India, but many think that Australian coal will struggle to compete on price
delivered into India, regardless of the volumes they might be able to dig out of the Galilee [Basin],"
Campbell said. Campbell noted that Japan, South Korea and Taiwan will remain big buyers of Australian
coal.
Coal shipments out of major ports in Australia totaled 28.2 million tonnes of coal in June, up from 18.3
million tonnes in the previous month.
Japan, the largest buyer of Australian coal, imported 15.8 million tonnes of coal in June, compared to
13.5 million tonnes in May, according to data from Trade Statistics of Japan. The country is estimated to
import 139.7 million tonnes of thermal coal and 45 million tonnes of met coal in 2014, according to UBS.
Japan has been looking to rely on coal as an energy source ever since the nuclear disaster that occurred
in 2011. Japan's Chugoku Electric Power Co. Inc. recently agreed to acquire a 10% stake in a coal mine
in New South Wales, Australia.
A prominent coal buyer in Asia, South Korea is expected to import 98 million tonnes of coal in 2014. In
June, South Korea imported 10.5 million tonnes of coal, up from 10 million tonnes in May, data from the
Korea International Trade Association showed. The country imported 61.1 million tonnes of coal in the
January-to-June period.
Indonesia, the world's largest coal exporter, shipped out 32.9 million tonnes of coal in June, according to
data from Oreteam, a research group based in India. While the country has adopted a new policy that
requires coal exporters to have a national license, Morgan Stanley believes the move will not have a
significant impact on export volumes out of the country.
The policy is to ensure that companies pay royalties on every tonne of coal produced. However,
Indonesia's national coal association has voiced its concerns about the upfront payment of royalties,
saying the policy will "drive firms into the ground" in addition to limiting coal exports.
Indonesia is already mulling the cancellation of the contracts of 17 coal miners that owe royalties to the
government.
Coal exports from Colombia have been underperforming due to a series of "one-off" incidents, UBS said.
Alabama-based Drummond Co. Inc., Colombia's second-largest producer, was forced to stop coal
exports from its Colombian operations due to a new regulation. In June, Colombia's coal exports
dropped 45.6% to 6.8 million tonnes from 12.5 million tonnes in May, according to Colombia's statistics
agency DANE.

Page86of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Colombia primarily ships coal to Europe. Carbones del Cerrejón, Colombia's largest coal producer, is
looking to boost its coal shipments abroad despite tightened regulations on carbon emissions in Europe, a
company official previously told SNL Energy. Cerrejón's coal exports in 2014 are expected to surpass
the volumes it shipped in 2013, totaling 33 million tonnes.
Russia's coal exports in June touched 13.1 million tonnes, down from 13.6 million tonnes in May,
according to Port News. Major Russian miner Mechel OAO has received permission to access a rail
branch that will give coal from its Elga deposit a direct link with ports in the Russian Far East, which can
serve customers in the Asia-Pacific region.
Russia exported 75.1 million tonnes of coal in the first half of 2014, up 15% from the year-ago period,
Port News said. The country is expected to export 106 million tonnes of coal in 2014, a target that looks
highly achievable.
Canada exported 3.3 million tonnes of coal in June, down from 3.5 million tonnes in April, according to
data from Statistics Canada, a government statistics agency. UBS said Canadian coal exports in the first
half were 6% lower year over year. China was the largest buyer of Canadian bituminous coal at 907,094
tonnes, followed by Japan and South Korea. India and Romania complete the top five destinations for
Canadian coal.

Canada's Fraser Surrey Docks LP received approval from Port Metro Vancouver on Aug. 21 to construct
a controversial new coal export facility in British Columbia to serve Powder River Basin coal producers,
with operations scheduled to begin in the fall of 2015.
South Africa shipped out 4.9 million tonnes of coal from its Richards Bay coal terminal, the country's
largest, according to data from the port. The data showed that 77.6% of the coal went to Asia, while
Europe accounted for 16.7% of the shipments. UBS said coal exports from South Africa were on track to
be 5% lower year over year in 2014. According to BREE, the African country could ship 76 million tonnes
of coal in 2014.

CO pbdy : Peabody Energy Corp | ubs : UBS AG
IN

NS

RE

i111 : Coal Mining | i1300006 : Pipeline Transportation | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i1 : Energy | ibasicm :
Basic Materials/Resources | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal :
Financial Services
c312 : External Markets | gtrade : Tariffs/Trade Barriers | e512 : Physical Trade | reqrmm : Suggested
Reading Metals/Mining | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e51 : Trade/External
Payments | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gdip : International Relations | gpir :
Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry
News Filter | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
india : India | austr : Australia | cabc : British Columbia | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific |
asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | cana : Canada | devgcoz : Emerging
Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | indsubz : Indian Subcontinent | namz : North
America | sasiaz : Southern Asia

IPD Transportation and Storage
PUB SNL Financial LC
AN

Document DCOAL00020140903ea8t00006

Page87of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.