Dear Client,

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Dear Client,

4,894 words
21 August 2014
New Zealand Transport Intelligence Business Alert
TMRTNL
English
(c) 2014 The Main Report Publications Ltd

Are the country’s infrastructure needs being adequately
determined and planned for, or are politics and ad-hoc
planning calling the shots? NZ Council for Infrastructure
Development CEO, Stephen Selwood says an
independent commission to assess and monitor NZ’s
infrastructure is needed to enable a shift away from
short-term politicised debate to the smooth execution of
infrastructure planning, funding and delivery. Selwood
cites the misalignment of infrastructure planning and
delivery with private sector or wider public policy, as the
basis for his call for a new statutory body responsible for
assessing and publishing national infrastructure needs
over 30 years and monitoring regional and national
progress. All future trends and pressures would be
analysed: population and demographic change,
finances, technology and environmental challenges.

“Optimal investment requires strong leadership and
governance, longterm visionary planning, linked to
funding, efficient and effective regulation, rigorous
project prioritisation and appraisal, and advanced
procurement and delivery capability.” He bolsters his
argument by pointing to the squabbling between
Auckland Council and the Govt over urban development
and the timing of the nation’s largest public transport
investment – Auckland’s inner city rail loop. Across the
regions there remains no cross-party agreement on
major inter-generational roads in Wellington, Waikato
and Northland, and in Christchurch in the absence of a
compelling investment proposition, market response to
the CBD rebuild has been much slower than anticipated.

- - -

Labour Says City Rail Link Will Be PriorityLabour’s
transport spokesman Phil Twyford says the Auckland
City Rail Link will be a priority if the Govt changes.
“We’re going to build the City Rail Link as a matter of
priority as soon as we’re elected. That’s a huge civil
infrastructure project. We’re utterly committed to building
the country’s transport infrastructure as a vital part of the
export supply chain as well as building modern public
transport systems in our cities.” Twyford believes where
there is investment in transport infrastructure,
particularly in growing cities, it opens the door to really
significant value uplift. “Capturing that value uplift and
investing it in infrastructure: that’s the virtuous circle for

Page53of343©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.urban development. I think the City Rail Link offers huge
potential not only for the development of the central city
with for example high-rise, commercial and residential
development, but it’s also a fantastic opportunity for
private capital to be fully involved in the whole process.”
He is strongly critical of the Transmission gully
motorway out of Wellington, insisting the characteristics
of a genuine public-private partnership are absent from
the agreement reached by the NZTA with Wellington
Gateway Partnership, which will build and operate the
road for 25 years.

- - -

National Pushes $100m For New CyclewaysA National
Govt will allocate $100m in new funding over the next
four years to accelerate cycleways in urban centres. The
announcement has been welcomed by the AA and the
transport industry. Transport Minister Gerry Brownlee
says an Urban Cycleway Investment Panel will
investigate opportunities to invest in urban cycleways to
expand and improve the cycling network. Brownlee says
National recognises commuting by bike has health
benefits and takes pressure off other transport networks,
but says cycleways in the largest centres are
fragmented and offer varied levels of service. “This
funding builds on significant investments the
government is already making, with projects in Hastings
and New Plymouth showcasing how cycling can be a
safer, more reliable and realistic transport option. Many
people cite safety concerns and a lack of infrastructure
as reasons for not cycling, so we’re going to begin
building cycleways to a standard that delivers real
incentives for commuters to make a change.”Funding for
the cycleways will come from the Crown’s Consolidated
Fund. Brownlee says building more comprehensive
cycling networks will require new infrastructure to
connect existing routes and expand the network into
wider urban areas. “And as these connections will be a
mix of local roads and State highways, we’ll need a
strategic approach and collaboration at central and local
government level. Some councils are well advanced in
planning and constructing local cycleways, and we want
to ensure we do what we can to complement them and
make them capable of being used by the widest number
of people possible.”

- - -
Transport Technology Firm Has Strong Appeal For
InvestorsTransport technology firmEroad raised $40m
of new capital from its IPO on the NZX last week, and
plans to use the money to fund its international
expansion. Eroad, based in Takapuna, employs 115
staff and makes telemetric systems which monitor
commercial vehicles and pay road-user charges
electronically. Investors like the proposition and made
Eroad’s debut on the market one of the strongest of the
recent hi-tech floats. The shares which closed the first
day of trading up 40c to $3.40, valuing the company at
$204m, have since risen to $3.52. New wins recently for
the company include a deal with Halls, which is said to
be the largest refrigerated transport company in NZ. It
forecasts revenues of $19m this year and $34m in
2015-16, expecting most of its growth will come from its
existing markets in NZ and Oregon.

Page54of343©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.- - -

Strong Economy Propels Freightways To Record ProfitA
strong economy has propelled NZ’s largest listed courier
business Freightways to a record profit of $$41.7m, and
despite reports the economy is slowing down it says it
expects further growth in 2015. The company believes
it can grow its business organically but it is also on the
lookout for acquisitions. MD Dean Bracewell says the
“widespread strength of this result was a particular
highlight, with good first half year earnings growth
followed by even better growth in the second half year.”
Both the express package & business mail division and
the information management division posted record
earnings performance.The express package & business
mail division, which operates a multi-brand strategy in
the domestic market through NZ Couriers, Post Haste,
Castle Parcels, NOW Couriers, SUB60, Security
Express, Kiwi Express, Stuck, Pass The Parcel, DX Mail
and Dataprint, reported operating revenue 8% higher at
$332m for the year.Bracewell says the long-established
business to business (B2B) activity increased during the
year, reflecting a growing domestic marketplace which
remains positive. But there was also increased volume
again in the business to consumer (B2C) and consumer
to consumer (C2C) space. All three internal service
providers, Fieldair Holdings, Parceline Express and
Freightways Information Services, underpinned the
service offered by Freightways’ front line businesses.
Bracewell says looking ahead “Freightways believes the
positive performance evident in this full year result will
continue, enabling the achievement of year-on-year
earnings growth again in 2015.”

- - -
Ngai Tahu, Tainui Buy Go Bus Big change in the public
transport sector - Ngai Tahu Holdings and Tainui Group
Holdings have bought national passenger transport firm
Go Bus from Aust private equity firm Next Capital for
$170m. Ngai Tahu will take a two-thirds stake and
Tainui will take the remainder. Next Capital says Go Bus
has a “solid earnings stream stemming from long term
contracts with limited revenue and margin risks” It also
has a “pipeline of growth opportunities as a result of the
structure of the New Zealand bus industry and the
impact of regulatory initiatives.”

- - -

New Port Inland Port For Manawatu-Whanganui
RegionPorts of Auckland, Napier Port and Icepak have
created a joint-venture to develop a new inland port and
intermodal freight hub at Longburn, Palmerston North. A
9ha site will be transformed into an intermodal logistics
and manufacturing hub. Site clearance is underway and
work will start soon on a cross dock to complement the
existing Icepak cold store on site. A container yard and
container wash facility – to prepare containers to export
ready standard – will also be built. This is the first stage
of a $20m development. More developments will be
announced in due course.The site is connected to the
main trunk line and the parties are currently in
discussion with KiwiRail to finalise services. Ports of
Auckland CEO Tony Gibson says “this places the port
gate on the doorstep of the region’s importers and
exporters, creating opportunity for both and driving cost

Page55of343©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.out of the supply chain. Currently imports come south
from Auckland but not much goes back. This new facility
will allow exporters to access this spare capacity,
lowering freight costs all round.”

- - -

New International Service For Christchurch
AirportChristchurch Airport is getting a new link with
Taiwan through a summer service by China Airlines.
The new service will operate three return flights a week
for an initial summer season from December 2, 2014 to
March 1, 2015. The service will offer an extra 24,000
seats between Christchurch-Sydney–Taipei over
December/January/February, which underlines the
on-going importance of Sydney as an international
airport hub for the South Island. It will also offer
opportunities for freight customers.Airport CEO Malcolm
Johns says a current feature of the aviation industry is
the emergence of alliances. China Airlines is a member
of the Sky Team Alliance, which does not currently
connect with the South Island. Other members of the
Sky Team Alliance who currently fly daily to Sydney
include Delta Air Lines, Korean Airlines, China Southern
Airlines, China Eastern and Garuda Indonesia.The new
service offers a total time of 14 hour and 15 minutes,
including transit time in Sydney, which is up to four
hours shorter and one stop less than any other option
currently available.

- - -

Wairarapa Air Link Rights Go To VincentA last minute
bid with a touch of drama has seen Wellington-based
Vincent Aviation www.vincentaviation.co.nz win
Masterton District Council www.mstn.govt.nz support for
its proposal to operate passenger air services between
the Wairarapa and Auckland. These will start in
mid-November using a Saab 340 aircraft. The council
came close to approving an arrangement with Air
Chathams www.airchathams.co.nz but was asked to
delay this until Vincent made a counter offer. This
included use of a bigger aircraft with cabin service
whose operational capabilities avoided the immediate
need for Wairarapa councils to lengthen the airport
runway. That would have been necessary for the smaller
capacity Metroliner proposed by Air Chathams. The air
link’s resumption has been welcomed by residents,
industry groups and others. Kevin Ward, CEO of
industry assoc NZ Airports www.nzairports.co.nz notes
“in a study last year for NZ Airports, Masterton Airport
was shown to generate added value to the Wairarapa
economy of $6.5m, rising to $35m when wider economic
linkages are taken into account. 100 jobs were
supported by the airport at that time. Most of the benefits
come from having regular airline links, so the new
service will ensure a key foundation stone for the
regional economy is restored.”While Vincent Aviation
was forced earlier this year to close down its
loss-making Australian division the company is very
busy in NZ and regionally. One current contract is in
Myanmar where a Beech 1900D is operating a
passenger/freight service between Yangon and
Kyaukpyu for an Asian corporation active in offshore oil
and gas. Kyaukpyu is site of a major deep sea port
project and terminal for oil and gas pipelines to China.

Page56of343©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Chinese investors are heavily involved and Myanmar is
planning to establish a special economic zone. A
long-distance railway to Yunnan is also under
consideration.

- - -

Integrated Logistics E-Commerce Service In
PreparationState-owned China Shipping
groupwww.cnshipping.com which has far-reaching
interests in the global shipping sector is working with
e-commerce specialist Alibaba Groupwww.alibaba.com
to establish an integrated logistics platform. This will
combine traditional shipping services with e-commerce
which “clients can use for online logistics price inquiry,
online ordering, online settlement and online goods
tracking.” Development work is focused on China
Shipping Network Technology, a supplier of transport
information products and China Shipping Container
Lineswww.cscl.com.cn

- - -

Prime Location Courier Base For AuctionA Kingsland,
Auckland freehold property used as a courier base will
be auctioned next week unless sold prior. Located on
New North Road near the increasingly trendy Kingsland
Village hospitality zone, the premises are being vacated
by Urgent Couriers www.urgent.co.nz because of the
need for more space. Agents Colliers International
www.colliers.co.nz say the property is a “substantially
refurbished 683 sq.m three level concrete block
building” which “comprises secure basement car parking
plus open car parks out front, ground level
warehouse/amenities and level 1 offices. Because of the
nature of its recent use it features a high standard of
security. John Davies and Peter Kermode are handling
this sale.

- - -

Pioneer Interchange Work To Start SoonConstruction is
to begin on a new bus-train interchange at Otahuhu,
Auckland later this year. Completion is targeted for
mid-2015. Global engineering and technical services
consultants Aurecon www.aurecongroup.com are
completing the detailed design and will subsequently
have construction oversight. Auckland Transport
www.at.govt.nz last weekend held an open day at the
Otahuhu Town Hall to explain the project, a pioneer for
several interchanges to be implemented across the
region. Project leader Aly Gleeson says “being the first
interchange of its kind for Auckland it will set the
standard. What we design will need to be of a high
quality, exceed customer expectations and be cost
effective.” Aurecon is a growing force in Australasian
infrastructure. Last week it appointed a new CEO, Giam
Swiegers, who will be based at the Sydney office.The
roll-out of electric trains in Auckland continued this week
with the introduction of the new equipment on the
Manukau line. Initially these are operating off-peak only
but will gradually take over all services. The trains have
been very well received on the Onehunga line but have
experienced some power supply glitches.

- - -

Page57of343©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Commercial Vehicles Added To Rental FleetHertz NZ
www.hertz.co.nz has introduced two new commercial
lines to its fleet in response to demand, primarily from
the infrastructure and agricultural sectors. Toyota Hilux
and Hiace ZX Cargo vehicles are now available in
Auckland, Christchurch, Hamilton and Bay of Plenty.
Country manager Mark Righton says “with a
construction boom across the country, we’re offering a
practical and cost-effective solution for companies and
govt departments that experience fluctuating demand for
commercial vehicles. Available as either short or
long-term rentals, both vehicles are perfectly suited to
the working and driving conditions in NZ.”

- - -

Health & Safety: Businesses Must Prepare For New
LawBrent Sutton, Health and Safety Solutions Manager
at health and safety development organisation
Workbase is warning many businesses are ill-prepared
for increased health and safety obligations under the
Health and Safety Reform legislation to become law
early next year and this is putting them at risk. He says
the new law, expected to come into effect in April 2015,
will increase employers’ responsibilities to have safe
work practices and to be sure employees know how to
work safely.He says businesses could make a start on
preparing themselves by:1. Identifying all of the
business’s hazards and risks.2. Understanding the
business’s health and safety obligations, and its
strengths and gaps. Businesses could develop this
knowledge by speaking with relevant industry
associations or similar businesses, or through external
verification of how well their health and safety system is
working.3. Developing a plan for implementing the
health and safety changes, and making it manageable
and easy for all staff to implement, by creating a
prioritised list.4. Addressing the business’s greatest
health and safety risks first.WorkSafe New Zealand,
provides guidance and standards for many industries on
its website:
www.business.govt.nz/worksafe/information-
guidance/guidance-by-industry

- - -

Transport Agency Tackles Truck SafetyAll businesses
involved with shipping heavy freight should be aware of
the high rate of truck accidents in NZ. Now the NZ
Transport Agency has joined together with the road
transport industry to tackle the problem of NZ’s high
truck rollover rate. On average a truck rolls over every
two to three days on NZ roads – twice the rate of
comparable countries such as Canada. Transport
Agency Freight Director Harry Wilson says “truck
rollover can happen for a number of reasons, so it’s
important we work together with the road transport
industry to address it.” The first step began in June
when the Transport Agency joined up with Road
Transport Forum, ACC and Police to run a series of run
a series of workshops around the country to raise
awareness of the issue. After the positive feedback from
this, the Transport Agency is working with its industry
partners to develop a comprehensive rollover prevention
programme for New Zealand which will begin in 2015.
Wilson says the goal is to reduce NZs rate of truck

Page58of343©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.rollover by half and together with the transport industry
we will be working hard to achieve this.

- - -

Digest

Clean TransportTesla owner tax rebates could total
$1.5bnClean Technica 19/08/2014. With a starting price
of around $70,000, the Tesla Model S costs more than
twice the average new car transaction price in the US.
Those well-off to be able to buy one though also get a
generous $7,500 Federal tax rebate, on top of any state
incentives, taking a sizable chunk off of the MSRP even
on the better-equipped versions. All this government
money will add up, and by the time the $7,500 tax credit
phases out, Tesla owners could end up claiming more
than $1.5bn. By the time the Tesla Model III rolls out,
there might not be many Tesla tax credits left. The IRS
has imposed a 200,000 unit per manufacturer limit on
the credit, of which Tesla owners may have claimed as
many as 60,000 by the end of this year. It’s hard to know
for sure, as Tesla doesn’t release detailed sales figures,
so it’s hard to know how many Teslas are sold in
America, versus Europe, China, and the rest of the
world. If Tesla manages to stick with its aggressive
timeline though, it will produce 75,000 vehicles in 2015,
and 100,000 in 2016. The IRS only says that the credit
runs out after production of 200,000 plug-in vehicles, not
200,000 rebates, which means that by the time the
$35,000 Tesla Model III won’t be eligible for that $7,500
discount. More ...
http://cleantechnica.com/2014/08/19/tesla-owner-tax-
rebates-total-1-5-billion/It’s cheaper to lease a new EV
than buy a used oneClean Technica 19/08/2014.
According to Wired, it costs less to lease a new EV than
to buy a used one. Why? Let’s follow the money trail.
The federal government allows a tax credit of up to
$7500 when you, the consumer, purchase a new EV.
But if you lease the EV, the credit goes to the
manufacturer, not to you. Which is why you see such
attractive lease deals available on EV’s like the Nissan
LEAF and the Chevy Volt. Today, you can lease a LEAF
with $2500 down for only $199 per month. There aren’t
many used EV’s out there for sale. Only the LEAF has
been on the market long enough for some off lease used
cars to be available. Chevy Volts will be winding up their
3 year lease period later this year. With so few cars on
the market, there is very little data to calculate resale
values accurately. Right now, Kelley Blue Book
estimates a 2012 Leaf with 33,000 miles on the
odometer will sell for $15,000. If you put down 10% on a
4-year term at 4 percent interest, you will end up paying
$305 a month – $100 more than the cost of leasing a
brand new one. More ...
http://cleantechnica.com/2014/08/19/cheaper-lease-
new-ev-buy-used-one/A gallon of tar sands oil can send
an EV over 30 milesClean Technica 18/08/2014. The
Alberta tar sands are an all-around environmental
disaster, though its defenders will claim that the energy
wrung out of the ground is worth it. A new report
published over at Hybrid Cars, however, reveals that the
energy it takes to produce just one gallon of gasoline
from the Canadian tar sands could propel an electric car
or plug-in hybrid for more than 30 miles. I’ll readily admit
that math isn’t my strong point, and as with any report or

Page59of343©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.study on energy consumption, the Devil is in the details;
some refineries are more or less efficient, closer or
farther to the tar sands themselves, so on and so forth.
But as a whole, the logic is fairly simple; digging up the
tar sands and then separating the oil from everything
else is an energy intensive process, each 42-gallon
barrel of oil (of which only about half is actually
converted into motor-grade gasoline) requires about 301
kWh of electricity to produce. More ...
http://cleantechnica.com/2014/08/18/gallon-tar-sands-oil
-can-send-ev-30-miles/Citi bike to expandClean
Technica 17/08/2014. Bicycles are here to stay.
Sometimes a bicycle gets you from here to there faster
than the subway. Luckily, Citi Bike, NYC’s bike-sharing
programme, keeps growing. It is expanding due to
increased funds. Very soon, Queens will have its first
docking stations. Docking stations will also emerge in
more areas of Brooklyn, such as the Williamsburg and
Park Slope neighborhoods; as well as in Prospect
Heights, Crown Heights, Red Hook, Long Island, and
Manhattan (extending as far north as 130th Street).
Conceivably, this increase in bicycle availability will
result in additional bike paths as well. It could result in
fewer crowds on the subway, too. The news describes a
sizable pending financial deal. REQX Ventures, an
affiliate of real-estate giant Related Cos, would be the
one putting in an additional tens of millions of dollars.
The increase will show the number of bikes close to
twice as many as now, going from 6,200 to 12,000.
Despite widespread use in NYC and 35 other US cities
with bike-sharing programmes, after 23m rides,
bike-sharing programmes across the country have not
resulted in a single death since launch in 2007, as
reported by Barbara Goldberg of Reuters. More ...
http://cleantechnica.com/2014/08/17/citi-bike-to-expand-
to-queens-north-manhattan-williamsburg/Rail‘Q Trains’
carrying police to be deployed to tackle rail
vandalsTelegraph.co.uk 18/08/2014. UK - Dummy
commuter trains carrying police officers have been
hauled out of retirement to tackle increasing numbers of
yobs and vandals on Britain’s railways. The Q Trains will
carry police officers who can leap out to tackle
trespassers as part of an undercover operation to target
crime hotspots on the rail network. Network Rail will
unveil annual figures on how much attacks on track and
rolling stock are costing the national tax payer. Q Trains
were first deployed in the 1980s. They look like normal
service trains but are loaded with police who leap off to
tackle yobs and vandals. Network Rail says they were
rarely used now following a switch to fast response cars
stationed by the tracks. But a summer-long purge
dubbed Operation Intruder has seen the return of the
dummy trains on route crime hotspots. British Transport
Police say hundreds of children and young adults - up to
14 a day - risk their lives and those of rail passengers
and staff every year by trespassing. More than half are
aged 14 and 25 and the lighter evenings saw a surge in
crimes such as vandalism. More ...
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/uknews/road-and-rail-
transport/11041256/Q-Trains-carrying-police-to-be-
deployed-to-tackle-rail-vandals.html3D laser mapping for
French rail networkRail Journal 19/08/2014. French
surveyors FIT ESIC are creating a 3D topographical
map of track and lineside equipment for French National
Railways (SNCF) using the StreetMapper LiDAR laser
surveying system developed by 3D Laser Mapping,

Page60of343©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Britain. The device, which is mounted on a rail vehicle, is
being used to scan several hundred kilometres of rail
infrastructure and the data gathered from millions of
individual laser-scanned measurements is used to
generate engineering-grade survey data and a 3D
topographical map of the track, catenary, and trackside
area. SNCF says the data is being used to provide
topographical inputs for studies into infrastructure
enhancements, gauging, and electrification projects. FIT
ESIC worked with 3D Laser Mapping to adapt the
technology for rail use, identifying locations on the track
for staff to measure control points, installing the device
on the rail vehicle, and overcoming vibrations from the
motion of the train. 3D Laser Mapping also developed
specific algorithms for processing trajectories.Singapore
reveals route for Eastern Region LineRail Journal
18/08/2014. Singapore Land Transport Authority (LTA)
announced the alignment and station locations on
August 15 for the Eastern Region Line (ERL), the
island’s sixth metro line, which will be operated jointly
with the Thomson Line as the Thomson-East Coast Line
(TEL). The nine-station ERL will link Sungai Bedok in
the east with Marine Parade, Siglap, and Tanjong Rhu,
running underground for its entire 13km length. Trains
will run onto the Thomson Line to link eastern and
northern districts of Singapore. The ERL will be built in
two phases, with the seven-station Tanjong Bayshore
section due to open in 2023 and the remainder of the
line to Sungai Bedok scheduled for completion a year
later. The 43km TEL will have 31 stations, seven of
which will be interchanges. The line will reduce the
journey time between the East Coast and Orchard in the
city centre from around 75 minutes by bus to around 45
minutes by train. More ...
http://www.railjournal.com/index.php/metros/singapore-
reveals-route-for-eastern-region-
line.html?channel=542ShippingTranspacific lines to
push for rate increaseCargo News Asia 19/08/2014. A
container shipping organisation has urged companies to
raise Asia-US freight rates by at least US$600 per
40-foot container from September 1. This corresponds
to an increase of 14.2% from current levels. TSA
(Transpacific Stabilisation Agreement) said the planned
increase follows strong cargo demand and high vessel
utilisation levels in recent months, which forward
bookings suggest will continue through September. Its
members include 15 of the world’s biggest container
shipping lines such as Denmark’s Maersk Line, a unit of
A P Moller-Maersk, privately owned Switzerland-based
Mediterranean Shipping Company (MSC), French
privately held CMA CGM, China’s Cosco Shipping,
Korea’s Hanjin Shipping and others. “Lines have made
modest revenue gains to date this year, but they
continue to struggle in terms of returning to profitability,”
TSA executive administrator Brian Conrad says in a
statement. TSA had also urged its members to hike
freight rates by $600 per 40-foot container from August
1, but rates have rapidly eroded since then. More ...
http://www.cargonewsasia.com/index.aspx/news/detail?i
d=34110Stiff competition continues for ship
financingCargo News Asia 18/08/2014. The largest
finance hubs in Asia Pacific are working hard to attract
more shipping companies and ship owners as
competition hots up. “It is difficult to say whether Hong
Kong is more important than Singapore as a ship
finance centre,” says David Cheng, honorary chairman

Page61of343©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.at Credit Agricole Ship Finance Asia, reported China
Daily. No single place generates enough business to
make it worthwhile for a bank to focus on shipping
finance exclusively, says Cheng. Rather, banks typically
take a regional approach. Hong Kong and Singapore
have long dominated the industry, thanks to their role as
global hubs and the large presence of shipping
companies, ship owners and firms that provide ship
financing – like banks, leasing companies and new
entrants such as policy banks. Tokyo and Seoul are also
important centres for ship finance. The competition
between Hong Kong and Singapore has intensified and
governments have taken steps to benefit from the
growth of the industry. “The Singapore government has
been very proactive in terms of attracting ship owners or
ship management companies, and they have been very
successful,” says Cheng. More ...
http://www.cargonewsasia.com/index.aspx/news/detail?i
d=34104Qingdao port faces another lawsuitCargo News
Asia 18/08/2014. China’s third-largest terminal Qingdao
Port International has received two lawsuits from global
warehousing company Pacorini Logistics. Pacorini is
claiming a total of US$58.4m from Qiungdao Port, which
is embroiled in an alleged financing scam. The port is
already being sued by Citic Resources for $108m.
Qingdao Port is at the centre of a fraud investigation into
a private metals trading firm, Decheng Mining, which
allegedly duplicated warehouse certificates stored at the
port to pledge a metal cargo multiple times as collateral
for bank loans. The suspected financing scam has
prompted global banks and trading houses, including
Standard Chartered, HSBC and Mercuria Energy
Trading, to fire off a series of lawsuits over their
exposure that has topped $900m. Pacorini Logistics, the
metals warehousing arm of Glencore , has filed two
legal proceedings against the Dagang Branch of
Qingdao Port and Qingdao Hongtu Logistics, the port
says. More ...
http://www.cargonewsasia.com/index.aspx/news/detail?i
d=34103

gtrans : Transport | greg : Regional Politics | gplan :
Urban Planning/Development | gcat : Political/General
News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol :
Domestic Politics
nz : New Zealand | auckl : Auckland | austr : Australia |
sydney : Sydney | uk : United Kingdom | well :
Wellington | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | eecz : European Union Countries |
eurz : Europe | nswals : New South Wales | weurz :
Western Europe
The Main Report Limited
Document TMRTNL0020140821ea8l00001

NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page62of343©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.