Blue chips likely to shine

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Blue chips likely to shine

GIUSEPPE TAURIELLO
484 words
11 August 2014
The Advertiser
ADVTSR
Advertiser
50
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

THE high Australian dollar and sluggish economy will result in subdued corporate earnings during this
year’s reporting season, while blue chips are likely to outperform the rest of the market, says
Adelaide-based stockbroking firmPrescott Securities.
Rio Tinto’s bumper $US4.4 billion half-year profit headlined the first week of this month’s profit
announcements. But that followed less impressive figures from Cochlear and Tabcorp, while Downer
EDI indicated it would be a tough year ahead for the engineering group.

Prescott Securitiesequity specialist Travis Adams said while global economic pressures were weighing
on local companies, growth in earnings per share across the market was likely to come in at about 7 to
8 per cent.

“Much of this growth will come from the larger quality stocks including the banks, healthcare and
non-discretionary retailers,” he said.

“Based on the current economic climate, profit growth won’t be quite as large as we might have hoped.

“Some of the defensive retailer stocks, while not bringing huge growth prospects, will continue to be
relatively consistent.” All eyes will be on Commonwealth Bank on Wednesday, when the country’s
biggest bank is expected to announce a cash profit of more than $8.5 billion for the first time in its
history.

“Term deposits are at very low rates which look likely to fall further reducing the banks financing costs,”
Mr Adams said.

“Mortgage rates have generally remained steady, helping maintain interest margins, and the recent cut
in fixed-rate home loans indicates that there is some fat in net interest margins and the CBA may be
using this to increase market share.

“The market’s expecting 3 per cent cash earnings growth, but we predict it will be higher than that and
CBA will have quite a healthy result.” Elsewhere in the financial sector, Mr Adams expects Macquarie
Bank and Computershare to benefit from an upswing in merger and acquisition activity while the
health sector is expected to deliver double-digit growth during the current reporting season.

Telstra will release its full-year results on Thursday – the same day Adelaide-based gas distributor
Envestra unveils the results of its final year of operation before being taken over by Hong Kong
billionaire Li Ka-shing’s Cheung Kong Infrastructure.

“Despite flat earnings growth in recent years, Telstra will have an interesting reporting season,” Mr
Adams said.
“A new CEO and a change in strategy may lead to improved earnings for Telstra, from 32c to 33c per
share.

Page72of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“This is a change from the past with almost no growth in earnings per share since 2001.” Mr Adams
said the Australian dollar was likely to remain stubbornly high as overseas investors continued to seek
higher interest rates.“Industries such as manufacturing and tourism are likely to continue to feel the
pinch of the high Australian dollar,” he said.

CO
IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

ipil : Downer EDI Ltd
i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c15 : Performance | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document ADVTSR0020140810ea8b00007

Page73of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.