THE weakness in commodity prices has exposed Australia's

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

ON THE LAND
THE weakness in commodity prices has exposed Australia's

432 words
4 December 2014
The Warrnambool Standard
FWARST
24
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

THE weakness in commodity prices has exposed Australia's vulnerability to global factors beyond
its control.
It also highlights the lack of a fallback option when oil, iron ore and coal prices suddenly go into
freefall.

The debate about the demise of Australia's manufacturing industry has gone quiet this year with
business and government focused on a strategy to bolster areas where the country has natural
advantages such as food and agribusiness, mining technology and oil and gas.

Food manufacturing continues to struggle despite growing demand for Australian products such as
beef and dairy from China's growing middle classes.
The $1.45 billion sale of small goods giant Primo Smallgoods to Brazilian food giant JBS last
month highlights the growing appetite offshore firms have for niche food and beverage producers.
But their willingness to sell up is also a reflection of the challenges manufacturers face tapping into
this demand on their own.

Paul Lederer, the founder of Primo, who is best known for owning the Western Sydney Wanderers
football team, says he is increasingly concerned about where Australia's manufacturing industry is
heading.
"It is diminishing. I personally feel it is not a good trend. America, Germany, Japan, and China
have a massive manufacturing base but in Australia we are losing a lot of that. We talk about tax
reform, industrial relations and all that.
"But I think it's no more than a talkfest," says Lederer, who sold his family's remaining 30 per cent
stake in Primo to JBS last month. Lederer says Australian business has become too introverted.

"They (JBS) can see the potential. We don't look at the world as a market here enough. We should
look at the world as one market a bit more optimistically.
"A lot of our assets are being sold but at the end of the day the people are employed here, the
money stays here. The world is a global place."
Affinity acquired a 70 per cent stake in Primo in 2011 and helped to fund the company's $240
million high-care food processing plant. It also acquired New Zealand's largest bacon and ham
producer, Beehive.
Investment bankers are tipping a surge in the amount of foreign capital, particularly from China,
which will be directed at Australian food companies. Australia's free trade agreement with China is
expected to help bolster the number of takeovers in an industry which is yet to reach its full
potential.

IN

i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources

Page172of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FWARST0020141203eac400014

Page173of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.