More green, less waste

Views From The Top

SE
HD More green, less waste
BY
, More green, less waste
WC 6,474 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

17 November 2014
Business Times Singapore
STBT
English
(c) 2014 Singapore Press Holdings Limited

THIS WEEK'S TOPIC: How green are your organisation's business practices? What can be done to make
Singapore a 'car-lite' and zero-waste nation?

THIS WEEK'S TOPIC: How green are your organisation's business practices? What can be done to make
Singapore a 'car-lite' and zero-waste nation?

TD

Hans Hanegraaf

Country Executive, ABN AMRO Bank NV Singapore and CEO, ABN AMRO Private Banking Asia &
Middle East

IN Singapore, ABN AMRO launched its Sustainability Campaign in March 2014 to engage and inspire our
people to continuously improve the sustainability of our operations, and to place our clients' interests on
centre stage and build long-term sustainable relationships. Besides encouraging electronic statements
and digital resources to reduce paper consumption, we also used our financial expertise to incorporate
sustainability at the core of our operations. In addition, we incorporated sustainability beyond our
operations. As a member of the global Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) and through our
Agri-Commodities Policy, we strive to promote the growth and use of sustainable palm oil through
cooperation within the supply chain and open dialogue between stakeholders. Similarly, we expect our
partners to conduct business in a sustainable manner too. Businesses have to go above and beyond
imbuing sustainability in the products and services they sell, and extend sustainability outside their internal
operations to encourage their partners to contribute to a better world.

Singapore's excellent public transportation infrastructure certainly supports a "car-lite" lifestyle. As a
cycling enthusiast, I certainly would welcome more cyclist-friendly initiatives - for example, to build a
pro-cycling culture for a greener lifestyle in our community here. In working towards becoming a
zero-waste nation, while the government and private sectors play their part in education and action
initiatives, each of us individually has to take responsibility within ourselves, in our families and at work to
adopt the "waste not, want not" credo in every aspect of our lives towards achieving this vision.

Mike Muller

President, Asia Pacific

Avaya

AS citizens, we all applaud the government's initiatives to create a healthier, greener and more engaging
environment for us all. As companies, we have that same responsibility to reduce wastage and pollution,
and create a more livable environment and a better work/life balance for our employees. One way we can
do that is by reducing our need to travel. Previously in this page, I have talked about the benefits of using
video collaboration tools, especially for internal meetings, to avoid people having to travel. It just makes
sense - saving time away from the office, lowering costs, enhancing productivity and reducing traffic. And
it's mobile too - available with a single click, wherever you are and on whatever device. As a company,
Avaya continues to reap the benefits of the switch to video - saving millions of dollars, man hours and
travel kilometres each year, slashing our CO2 emissions by 46 per cent - and giving our employees time
back to spend with their families and friends. What's more, we are working with companies in Singapore

Page50of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.and around the region - notably in banking, education, healthcare, hospitality, manufacturing and
government - to help them do just the same thing.

Chong Kee Sen

President

The Institution of Engineers Singapore (IES)

AS the Institution of Engineers Singapore is the country's national society of engineers, sustainable
practices feature high in our agenda, from using the latest sustainable design and construction technology
for the new IES building to establishing initiatives such as a handbook and a professional registry for
effective stormwater management systems. To make Singapore "car-lite", engineers must continue to
develop an efficient public transport network system and developments integrating offices, housing and
services.

To achieve zero waste, two things are essential: a widespread, long-term commitment to reducing waste
by segregating commercial, industrial and residential waste at source to facilitate collection and
separate treatment; and the availability of technological and engineering innovations to recycle waste to
generate electricity or reuse as raw materials for manufacturing. One cannot work without the other. As
land-filling and incineration are costly multi-million dollar exercises, zero waste is not an option but a
necessity for Singapore.

Andrew Wildblood

Head of Asia Pacific

Telstra Global Enterprise & Services

WE'RE determined to reduce our environmental impact and believe new technology and ways of working
will help us create environmental solutions that are truly inspired. Our people are digitally connected like
never before, which means flexibility is a value they expect from us. This year we introduced a new
initiative called "All Roles Flex", which means all current and advertised jobs at Telstra are flexible. There
are people on my team who have a pretty intense commute into the office. So, if once or twice a week
they can get that time back by working from home, we can certainly make sure we're equipping them to do
that by staying connected and, hopefully, make a difference to a sustainable Singapore too.

Nick Foley

President, SE Asia Pacific & Japan

Landor Associates
THERE are now more than one billion bicycles in the world. The Netherlands still has the highest usage
of bikes per capita, followed by Denmark and then Germany. In Singapore, recreational cycling is growing
in popularity; however, cycling for the commute is low. Cycling lanes, and making Singapore more
"bike-friendly" is a positive way to reduce our reliance on cars.

When Landor worked with the City of Melbourne on a new brand blueprint, one of the key focal areas was
sustainability. Whether it be recycling waste or extending bike paths, there was a clear intent to reduce
carbon emissions and make Melbourne a healthier city to reside in.

While Singapore could be doing more with regard to recycling and lower car usage, the MRT has been an
outright success. More than 110 stations are now in use and a number of new lines will open in the near
future. The ongoing development of the MRT will only further encourage Singaporeans to leave the car at
home.

Shinji Tada

Managing Director, Asean

Brother International Singapore

GLOBALLY, Brother is constantly taking positive steps to protect the environment in all aspects of our
business operations and to be a responsible corporate citizen. Locally, not only is Brother Singapore a
proud member of Project Homecoming, an initiative to collect and recycle old ink cartridges, we believe
that working with the community and educating at a grassroots level can also effect a greater change -
which is why we have pledged to be part of the PUB "Friends of Water" programme with the adoption of
Punggol Reservoir.

Page51of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Through this adoption, Brother aims to help educate and build awareness of water conservation in
Singapore by contributing our time and resources to initiate activities on site to highlight the importance of
caring for our water resources and reach out to a larger community in future. On World Water Day this
year, together with Anchor Green Primary School, we held educational activities at the Sengkang Floating
Wetland for our staff and the students. Through these ways, we feel we can help to make a greater
change beyond recycling, reusing and reducing.

Ispran Kandasamy

Vice-President of Sales, Asia Pacific

CommScope

COMMSCOPE looks at "green" initiatives from an internal and external perspective. We continually review
how we operate our own facility here in Singapore so that we can optimise the use of energy and space -
the primary approach we use is to deploy smart light and sensor technology in our facility - this is relatively
easy to do and it delivers quick results. At the same time, we offer solutions and services to customers in
Singapore that deliver agile, innovative, high-calibre network infrastructure that first collects data about the
environment within a building and then helps monitor and manage power and space consumption.

By the end of 2020, CommScope's stated goal is a 25 per cent reduction in carbon emissions globally. I
have no doubt that countries like Singapore, which have a relatively high population density, will see more
intelligent or smart buildings. These buildings have sensors within the fabric of the build, all feeding back
over a common infrastructure. Analysis of this data helps determine how effective energy management
schemes are and how well space is being used.

Singapore is ahead of the game with policies and incentives in place to drive the green agenda. Small,
incremental, positive changes around the best use of resources, power and space, among individuals and
enterprises, will all help to make Singapore a zero-waste nation.

Eu Pui Sun

Senior Vice-President (Sales & Business Development)
Senoko Energy Pte Ltd
AS Singapore's largest genco, Senoko Energy is consistently an early adopter of green and sustainable
business practices. We were the first genco in Singapore to adopt the gas-fired Combined Cycle
technology, a lower-emission and environmentally friendlier way to generate electricity. This and other
measures have helped to reduce our carbon footprint by 40 per cent compared with year 2000.
We also recognise that, while energy is a key component in powering up our industries and businesses,
better energy efficiency can help further reduce our energy usage and carbon footprint. So we work with
our retail customers to help them tap assistance schemes to finance energy audits. This will help them
identify areas where energy efficiency can be improved, leading to lower energy usage and, hence,
costs.

We also see potential in efficiency improvements in transport through greater use of electric vehicles in
Singapore. Such vehicles have zero tailpipe emissions and are highly energy-efficient. We were one of
the first to take part in the Electric Vehicle Test-Bedding Programme, so we are pleased to see that
electric car sharing trials will be conducted with the aim of a "car-lite" Singapore. We hope that greater
adoption of electric vehicles in future will lead to fresher air and a greener commute for all.

We feel that a fundamental success factor to sustainable green living is our mindset - how can all of us
take personal ownership for a greener Singapore? To that end, we have spent more than a million dollars
to generate greater awareness among school-going children in Singapore about environmental
sustainability, resource conservation, saving energy and saving water. We feel such educational outreach
is important and worthwhile to cultivate an environmental-conscious mindset in our young students today
for a greener tomorrow.

Michael Anderton

General Manager & Managing Director, Building Efficiency Singapore

Johnson Controls (S) Pte Ltd

AT Johnson Controls, we believe in environmental, social and economic sustainability. At the global level,
we have committed to spending US$50 million over the next three years to develop new products and
technologies in the fight against climate change. In that regard, I am pleased to say that the Carbon

Page52of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Disclosure Project (CDP), the world's only global environmental disclosure system, has recognised
Johnson Controls as a leader among S&P 500 companies for its actions to reduce carbon emissions. In
Singapore, buildings account for about 40 per cent of total energy consumption and represent our best
chance to reduce our ecological footprint. As a global leader in building efficiency and integrated smart
green building systems, we will continue to play our part in the transformation of the city-state by
delivering innovative solutions to our clients to help them realise their sustainability goals.

Tan Tong Hai

CEO

StarHub Ltd
AS a homegrown company that firmly believes in environmental sustainability, StarHub constantly finds
ways to lighten Singapore's environmental footprint.

For instance, when we progressively upgraded our mobile network, including 4G, we managed an overall
12 per cent energy savings in 2013 because of the use of energy-efficient technology.

To conserve resources and minimise waste, StarHub provides several opportunities for customers to go
green. RENEW, StarHub's consumer-centric electronic waste recycling programme in partnership with
DHL and TES-AMM, has recycled more than 16 tonnes of e-waste. It was an initiative started by StarHub
and remains Singapore's most inclusive and extensive e-waste recycling programme.

StarHub has implemented a paperless billing system at our shops, and replaced the Business Reply
Envelope with an online version for customers to print only if necessary. Our customers are also
encouraged to opt for MyStarHub e-bill instead of paper bills. These measures saved more than 42
tonnes of paper in 2013.

Wong Heng Chew

President

Fujitsu Singapore

FUJITSU recognises that going green is not only good for the environment, but also good for business.
Our sustainability strategy utilises the latest technology and creative talents to promote sustainable
development on all levels - from research and development, to the preferential procurement of
eco-friendly parts, to building energy efficient data centres as a way to lower carbon emissions.

In addition to being ISO14001-certified, Fujitsu actively participates in environmental protection activities
company-wide. These include providing employees with Fujitsu mugs to reduce the use of paper cups,
placing recycling bins around the office and encouraging staff to switch off the lights during the lunch hour.
A recent joint research with The Australian National University of Canberra using our Life Cycle
Assessment technology found innovative methods of managing native forests to maximise carbon storage
and the benefits of other ecosystem services.

As a global tech hub, Singapore is well positioned to use the latest technologies to reduce the
environmental burden of society. By deploying ICT towards this cause, we will come one step closer to
solving environmental challenges.

Kim Chan

Chairman and CEO

Veolia Transport RATP Asia (VTRA)

SINGAPORE'S public transport system has been a key factor in its development into one of the world's
most liveable cities, and it will play an increasingly crucial role in its future. To take the next step and
become a truly "car-lite" nation, Singapore will need to encourage even more travel on public transport.
This will require a dual approach - delivering a level of comfort and convenience that can rival car use, as
well as making environmental concerns more of a priority in everyday decisions. It's all well and good
telling passengers that taking the bus will use nine times less energy than their car, but they need to see
this as a positive decision, not a sacrifice.

In its commitment to ensuring the highest standards, the government recently introduced a new
contracting model for public bus services. This liberalisation opens the door for new service providers to
introduce innovative public transport solutions. As one of the companies preparing a bid to operate the
first batch of routes, VTRA's priority is ensuring that we can deliver the quality and reliability that

Page53of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.passengers demand throughout their journey. But we also recognise that operators must lead by example
when it comes to the environment, so we are working at identifying new environmentally friendly initiatives
to help contribute to Singapore's clean and green vision.

Yu Tat Ming

CEO

PacificLight

PACIFICLIGHT shares the government's view that to make Singapore a model city for green living
requires our collective contribution and commitment. Initiatives taken by individuals and industries can
take many forms. As an energy company, we are focused on initiatives which maximise efficiency,
thereby reducing our impact on the environment while also reducing costs for our customers. We are the
largest registered Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) project in Singapore under the United Nations
Framework Convention on Climate Change, a scheme recognising projects that contribute to sustainable
development and emissions reduction. We were also awarded Greenmark status by the BCA for the
implementation of high quality equipment and sustainable practices at our Jurong Island power plant.
Recycling is promoted and we provide free transfers for staff from strategically located MRT stations to
work to minimise driving - practices which could be encouraged by providing some form of incentive to
companies. These reflect our commitment to the environment and contribution to a cleaner Singapore.

Nadeem K Sheikh

Managing Director, Asia Pacific & Japan

Opower

AT Opower, we're in the business of making businesses greener. We help utilities and countries around
the world to reduce their energy consumption while achieving greater efficiency and lowering their costs.
We practise what we preach because we know that together with our clients and their customers, we can
save energy. We believe that Singapore can become a "car-lite" and zero-waste nation through focused
education and information campaigns.

We recently ran a study with one of our largest clients and saw that peak power usage was reduced by
about 3 per cent on the days that customers received an e-mail with details on the cost savings incurred
by powering down. We have seen through our pilot programmes that, even without extra economic
incentives, many people will turn it down when asked. Waste, the roads, electricity - powering change is
all about initiating and engaging the consumer in an on-going conversation.

Ronald Lee

Managing Director

PrimeStaff Management Services Pte Ltd

AT PrimeStaff, we are proactive in seeking ways to reduce our carbon footprint as much as possible. Our
commitment to environmentally responsible operations has resulted in the following green initiatives: use
of multi-function and energy-efficient devices bearing the "Energy Star" seal, a target to recycle 85 per
cent of all office waste via co-mingled recycling, switching to duplex printers to save paper, resetting all
shutdown and sleep functions on our printers to save energy, and investing in fully integrated
video-audio-Web conferencing facilities to reduce our business-related travel.
The government has already taken the lead in trying to make Singapore a "car-lite" nation. This is clear
from the change in car-loan rules that now require a 40-50 per cent cash downpayment on purchases
coupled with the continued tightening of the COE quota. Combined, these measures put cars further out
of reach for the masses. The writing is clearly on the wall that Singapore is headed towards this "car-lite"
status, in line with the world's most populous cities. To make this work, however, the public transport
system needs to be vastly improved to ease the dreadful peak-hour human traffic crunch. While there are
many plans underway to expand the MRT network, they will take time to materialise and the problem
requires urgent attention. Aside from public transport, I think Singapore is on its way towards being a more
"green" city, both literally and figuratively. While I don't think we can ever be a "zero-waste nation", I
welcome the growing initiatives to encourage recycling. But we need to build the right foundation through
a collective mindset shift and make ours less of a "throwaway society". One area that I feel is currently
lacking is the recycling of electronic waste. We need more public education and infrastructure to collect
electronic waste such as old computers and devices, especially given Singaporeans' love for new
gadgets.

Page54of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Paul Lim

Chief Executive Officer
Soverus Group Pte Ltd
SOVERUS is a firm believer in adopting sustainable eco-friendly practices even if it means higher costs.
Two of our key initiatives that have resulted in significant green savings is to use electronic Visitor
Management Systems (VMS) in place of paper record books in more than 50 operational sites across the
country, and to allocate company e-mail to all our 500 security officers so that they can take part in the
company's e-payslip scheme which comes with a S$10 NTUC voucher upon signing up. Go-green is
something that we regularly advocate to all employees and partners.

At a national level, to achieve the targets of the Sustainable Singapore Blueprint, two key mindsets have
to change. The first mindset to challenge is that of "my small little green acts of saving the earth such as
riding public transport over individual car usage will not contribute much". Many Singaporeans are still not
convinced that small individual acts such as recycling paper, cans and plastics are important. However, it
is encouraging that, anecdotally, the younger generation is picking up good green habits from an early
age, even while working adults and retirees adapt at a slower pace. As in all major mindset changes
where the impact is not immediate and visibly obvious, this transformation will probably require a decade
or two to materialise.

The second mindset is at a business or corporate level. MNCs are increasingly embarking on major "clean
and green" efforts and these are often featured in various media, such as building designs winning "green
awards", eco-friendly machinery, etc. As a result, SME owners tend to feel that there is no point for them
to make adjustments towards green efforts as their contributions will pale in comparison with those of
MNCs. This is, of course, flawed thinking as SMEs in Singapore contribute roughly half of GDP and, as a
rough proxy, probably contribute also 50 per cent of waste. To spur SMEs towards becoming more
eco-friendly, more education and publicity should be focused on SMEs in this area. The government can
also help in incentivising SMEs who are embarking on the green journey through upfront cash incentives
for process re-engineering or purchase of eco-friendly machinery.

Tham Sai Choy

Managing Partner

KPMG in Singapore and Chairman of KPMG Asia Pacific

ENVIRONMENTAL conservation is a subject close to the heart of our people. Having environmentally
friendly work practices is the most natural thing to do, especially with the emergence of a more socially
aware generation with no shortage of career choices.

We measure our net carbon emissions and have established specific targets to reduce emission levels.
Supporting this, we conduct awareness programmes for staff to share and encourage business practices
that conserve energy, water and paper. We communicate progress and priorities with an annual
sustainability report prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative framework. With those
initiatives, we have cut our net emissions per person in Singapore by 7.1 per cent between 2010 and
2013. Initiatives being rolled out to further expand arrangements to work from home will accelerate this.

Singapore is a model city for resource conservation and optimisation. Its compact dimensions and smart
city-design capabilities give us room to be at the cutting edge of environmental conservation, while
sustaining a responsible rate of economic growth. Increasingly, other countries also look to Singapore to
lead the way in this area, and it is easy to see that we cannot be a key beneficiary of global environmental
protection without playing our part responsibly.

Valery Muyard

General Manager

Volvo Trucks Singapore

THERE are plenty of reasons to take sustainability seriously. It is also by far the most important
environmental issue for those in the transport sector. As one of the world's biggest manufacturers of
heavy commercial vehicles, we recognise that we have a part to play.Volvo Trucks is working towards
reducing the environmental impact of its products throughout its entire lifecycle - from the first sketches on
the drawing board, throughout its service life until it is recycled. We take this further through driver
development programmes to maximise fuel efficiency, leading to reduced carbon emissions and overall
operating cost for our customers. Our aim is to ensure that every new product has a lower environmental

Page55of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.impact than the one it replaces. Energy-efficient and fuel-efficient products and solutions are no doubt
beneficial to everyone.

Jean-Michel Dumont

Chairman

Ruder Finn Asia

THE report from the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change that there is a clear and
growing influence of human activity on the world's climate, followed by the Apec announcement on the
US-China partnership to fight climate change, will add to the growing awareness of environmental issues.

But, unfortunately, the necessary behavioural changes have not yet reached the tipping point in many of
those countries most able to effect change. The key to successful behavioural change is implementing the
right strategy at the right time and finding the "what's in it for me?" factor that motivates sustainable action.
This is not an issue that can be resolved by community action alone - it will require a buy-in by the
government, the people and the private sector. It will be important to identify that sweet spot for each
stakeholder group. Singapore, with its track record of successes, is uniquely positioned to play a leading
role in this region to ensure a high quality living environment for this and future generations.

Goh Swee Chen

Chairperson

Shell Companies in Singapore
MEANINGFUL conversations around energy and environmental issues need to take account of initiatives
and momentum from the ground. The actions and passion of the staff of Shell in Singapore have allowed
us to contribute proactively through various community initiatives, stimulate discussions and ideas around
energy conservation and deepen their knowledge of the issues involved.

Singapore's focus and strength in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) education,
not only creates a breeding ground for new innovations, but also allows us to connect students with the
current realities - and future possibilities - of global energy. Platforms such as the Shell Eco-marathon
and Shell Singapore Youth Science Festival Camp can inspire students by showing them that they can
make a difference in solving the challenges around climate change and emissions.

Tony Ang
Global Board Director

Aedas

AEDAS takes a comprehensive design approach towards environmental sustainability where we go
beyond the tangible considerations of building performance and energy use to maximise sustainable
value to the communities we design for. Using our in-house analysis tools, our global design teams have
been able to assess lifecycle impacts of our design solutions, construction techniques and material
choice. This has allowed us to achieve green building certifications for a number of our designs.

Aedas has been pushing for transit-oriented developments as the way forward for sustainable urban
cities. These focused urban hubs placed over transportation nodes will be crucial in creating a "car-lite"
Singapore where easy access to transport networks will encourage the use of public transport. We have
successfully designed many such developments around the world and will continue to advocate their
implementation.

Joshua Yim

CEO
Achieve Group

BEING in the professional services industry, our green efforts extend to finding ways to minimise office
waste. These include recycling of paper and printing documents only when absolutely necessary. We will
also implement a new system that will digitise more of our day-to-day work activities. This will help
eliminate the need to print resumes for the purpose of interviewing job candidates, for instance, as we are
a recruitment agency. Singapore should look into enhancing the adoption of electric cars. While electric
cars enjoy lower registration taxes and tax breaks on low emissions, these discounts are not significant

Page56of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.enough to sway motorists. The government should provide greater tax rebates and other incentives to
reduce the costs to buyers, as electric and hybrid cars tend to be pricier than average. Singapore should
also look into building more charging stations for greater convenience. If we are able to implement this
successfully, Singapore, being a small country with limited landmass, could become a "model city" for
others to follow. The authorities could also explore providing subsidies or rebates for energy-saving
appliances and equipment. This would incentivise businesses to import or invent energy-saving products.
Waiving GST for such items would be good.

Toby Koh
Group Managing Director
Ademco Security Group Pte Ltd

A MAJOR financial institution in Singapore worked hand-in-hand with us in improving its security strategy,
increasing efficiencies, reducing risks on a real-time basis and yet we were still able to cut carbon
emissions. Traditionally and still widely practised today, upon an alarm trigger, security guards are
dispatched to respond in their motor vehicles. It would be safe to say that such security response at
financial institutions in Singapore numbers into the thousands a year, contributing greatly to carbon
emissions levels here. We reviewed and revamped the norms with our client, and designed and deployed
a real-time live feed security management platform and implemented across hundreds of their sites across
the island. Now, upon an alarm trigger, both recorded and live feeds of the property would be transmitted
to Ademco's integrated monitoring platform. An immediate risk assessment is conducted to filter out
possible false alarms, hence cutting down sharply on trips by guards to site. Risk is reduced. Carbon
emission and costs are reduced.

John Keung Kam Yin

CEO

Building and Construction Authority

OCCUPANTS contribute 50 per cent of a building's total electricity consumption. This means that they
have a crucial role to play in reducing a building's electricity usage and carbon footprint. The Building and
Construction Authority's (BCA)'s 3rd Green Building Masterplan thus places greater emphasis on
end-users and is supported by various user-centric Green Mark schemes, such as the Green Mark for
Retail, Supermarkets and Office Interior. BCA's user-centric Green Mark schemes were designed to
encourage tenants to proactively adopt environmentally friendly practices and implement green fit-outs to
cut down on electricity consumption and waste. Landlords can also do their part to encourage tenants to
embark on the sustainability journey through initiatives such as green leases, which are agreements
between landlords and tenants on how buildings are to be improved, managed or occupied in a
sustainable manner. BCA's Green Mark scheme credits the provision of bicycle lots and electric car
charging lots within buildings, as well as projects with good connectivity to public transportation points.
These aim to encourage building users to adopt a "car-lite" lifestyle in their day-to-day activities.

Pauline Goh

CEO, Singapore and South East Asia

CBRE Pte Ltd

IN response to ongoing global discussions about climate change and its impact on the environment,
CBRE has committed to minimising that impact for our company, clients and communities. In Singapore,
we recognised very early that it is crucial to put in place a programme to demonstrate our commitment to
protecting the environment, particularly given the country's limits to resources and desire to take a
regional leadership role on this matter, and the impact that real estate has in this regard. We set up a
Green Office Committee in 2008 to educate staff and monitor performance on sustainable practices such
as waste recycling, reducing paper usage and turning off equipment when not in use. The committee also
coordinates Singapore's participation in CBRE's global annual Green Week programme - five full days of
activities that promote sustainability education and activities such as visits to recycling plants, beach
clean-ups, opting for the stairs over taking lifts and lunch-and-learn sessions, through which staff learn
more about environmental issues. CBRE Singapore has maintained a Singapore Environment Council
Eco-Office certification for the past four years and we are in the process of obtaining a Green Mark
Interiors certification for the recent refurbishment of our offices in the Green Mark Platinum-certified Six
Battery Road. CBRE has both a responsibility and an opportunity to influence the way buildings are built,
sourced, managed, occupied and sold. Three of the buildings CBRE Singapore managed were listed as
the Top 10 Most Energy Efficient Buildings by The Building & Construction Authority in 2014.

Page57of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Yeoh Oon Jin

Executive Chairman

PwC Singapore

PWC is committed to respecting the environment, by raising awareness of our carbon footprint and taking
measurable steps to reduce the environmental impact of our business operations. We measure and
review our carbon footprint computation regularly. Over the recent months, our employees have joined
hands with several local beneficiaries through the Nature Cares Programme as well as planted a rooftop
garden for the elderly through our Corporate Responsibility project, Banda Street.

We believe that every citizen or organisation has a responsibility towards keeping Singapore green. At
PwC, we have already taken the first step towards being "car-lite" by having cycling groups made up of
enthusiasts who are comfortable with this mode of transport. To inculcate this habit, it must complement
Singapore's National Cycling Plan to improve the education and infrastructure to support cycling as a
mode of transport. To reduce waste at the corporate level, PwC has been controlling the level of printing
by increasing the use of digital publications. Additionally, we continue to invest in new technology such as
mobile apps and video conferencing which we believe will reduce unnecessary travel.

VR Srivatsan

Managing Director

Autodesk Asean

DIGITAL city models are a crucial tool in shaping cities of the future. These large-scale 3D models
integrate big or meta data such as air flows, energy consumption, carbon emissions, solar energy
potential, storm water flows, and pedestrian traffic. Urban planners can then create proposals for designs
within existing surroundings and conduct time-based simulations for population growth, weather impact,
traffic patterns and many other factors.

Adopting these models, we could design adaptive traffic light systems to give rapid transit buses green
lights if they're running late so that they can catch up - resulting in more reliable bus services and
encouraging ridership. Active traffic management systems - implemented in several countries including
Germany and the UK - can also control the speed dynamic and help prevent start-stop traffic, increasing
capacity of a fixed stretch of road. Design and construction, powered by BIM-enabled advanced design
technologies, will make future cities more sustainable, resilient, economically vital and liveable.

Kimball Hall
Site Head and Vice-President, Manufacturing

Amgen Singapore
AS a biotechnology company, our main aim is developing and producing medicines that can reach
patients around the world. With the launch of Amgen's Next-Generation Biomanufacturing in Singapore
this week, we are taking a revolutionary approach to biomanufacturing. In line with the Sustainable
Singapore Blueprint, our new facility will have the same annual output as a conventional facility but in a
smaller building that has a significantly reduced impact on the environment.

Through the use of flexible, modular technologies, we estimate the facility will produce the same amount
of product with more than 75 per cent reductions in the usage of energy and water and in carbon dioxide
emissions, as well as reductions in solid waste and chemical usage.

Capitalising on major technological advances allows us to more quickly - and more sustainably - bring to
patients innovative therapies that treat conditions such as diabetes, anaemia and cancer.

Saulo Spaolanse

Country President

Schneider Electric Singapore and Brunei

BE it individuals or industries - one of the easiest ways to start reducing your carbon footprint is to
understand how you use energy. Technology available today - such as energy meters and building
management systems - enable the aggregation of data from multiple systems and building components,
thus allowing energy managers to measure and manage energy usage across an entire building's
portfolio. Closer to home, home automation systems allow owners to track energy use of individual

Page58of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.appliances or systems and, from there, they can adjust their lifestyles to consume less energy without
sacrificing comfort.
As a leader in energy management, Schneider Electric enables our clients to make the most of their
energy. For the past 41 years in Singapore, we've been helping customers improve energy efficiency and
reduce their carbon footprint. As an example, most of our building clients are now Green Mark certified or
on the way to obtaining certification. We have also been collaborating with the government in turning
Singapore into a smarter, more efficient world city.

Herbert Vongpusanachai

Senior Vice-President and Managing Director

DHL Express Singapore

AS the world's largest logistics service provider, DHL has a responsibility to reduce our carbon footprint
globally by cutting down and offsetting greenhouse gas emissions, and giving our customers the chance
to do the same. These ideas underlie our GoGreen programme, which introduced the industry's first
climate-neutral shipping services and saw the expansion of green vehicles in our fleet to 10,500 globally.
These initiatives, together with more efficient ground operations, energy management in our real estate
and greening of our IT equipment, have helped DHL offset more than 180,000 tonnes of CO2 globally. In
Singapore, DHL's CO2 efficiency improved by 11 per cent in 2013, making us a more sustainable
business locally.

Besides carbon emission, e-waste generation is also a growing issue in Singapore, with 60,000 tonnes of
e-waste produced every year. That is why we partnered StarHub and TES-AMM to launch the REcycling
Nation's Electronic Waste (RENEW) programme, which enables Singaporeans to safely dispose of
unwanted electronic devices and equipment for free. This will alleviate our impact on the environment and
improve Singapore's liveability.

Lee Meng Tat

CEO

Wildlife Reserves Singapore

WE believe conservation goes beyond the preservation of animals and their habitats, into areas such as
the efficient use of natural resources and a reduction in waste production and carbon emissions. In the
past four decades, we did our best to embed concepts of environmental sustainability into the
development and operations of Jurong Bird Park, Night Safari and Singapore Zoo.

We took such efforts further when designing River Safari and included green features such as bioswales
and a water and energy efficient management system. In addition, we did what we could to preserve
existing wildlife habitats and also created new ones to support a greater biodiversity of flora and fauna.
These efforts found endorsement and Wildlife Reserves Singapore is proud to receive the BCA Green
Mark Platinum Award.

As an organisation that champions nature conservation, we applaud the Sustainable Singapore Blueprint,
and hope it will spur the nation to do more for our living environment.

Karen Reddington

Regional Vice-President, South Pacific

FedEx Express

AT FedEx, transportation is the core of our business and there is no single solution for reducing our
environmental footprint. We are committed to operating and innovating in new, more environmentally
friendly ways. To do this, FedEx has set emissions goals including reducing aircraft emissions intensity by
30 per cent by 2020. Most of this reduction is due to replacement of older, less-efficient aircraft with
Boeing 777-F planes which deliver 24 per cent better fuel economy. We are also increasing our vehicle
efficiency with the support of new technology by teaming up with Nissan Motor to conduct the field test of
its electric "zero-emission" e-NV200 EV prototype in Singapore in 2013. FedEx also has the EarthSmart®
programme, which is our way of recognising and encouraging innovative initiatives to seek to improve our
environmental performance. We have implemented a series of green initiatives and introduced a number
of green solutions such as the introduction of carbon-neutral envelopes shipping and rollout of an
Eco-Driving programme.

Page59of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.ART The world's first solar bike path - cyclists are seen here using the SolaRoad, the first road in the world

made of solar panels, in Krommenie in the Netherlands.

CO abnamh : ABN AMRO Bank N.V. | abnagn : ABN AMRO Group N.V.
IN

i35104 : Electric/Gas/Biofuel Vehicles | i351 : Motor Vehicles | iaut : Automotive | i814 : Banking | i831 :
Financial Investments | i83101 : Investment Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services |
iinv : Investing/Securities
gsust : Sustainable Development | gcat : Political/General News | genv : Environmental News | gpir :
Politics/International Relations | gplan : Urban Planning/Development | gpol : Domestic Politics
singp : Singapore | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
seasiaz : Southeast Asia

NS

RE

PUB Singapore Press Holdings Limited
AN

Document STBT000020141116eabh0000s

Page60of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.