FUSO LEADS THE CHARGE

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Drive
FUSO LEADS THE CHARGE

GEOFF PARADISE
709 words
13 September 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
14
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

The Japanese truck maker has begun a trial of all-electric trucks in Portugal, writes GEOFF
PARASIDE.

Japanese truck maker, Fuso, has put into limited production the first "zero emissions" all-electric light
duty truck. For now, the Canter E-Cell, made on a dedicated production line for prototypes at the
company's Portuguese plant, is being trialled by a small number of operators in Europe. It produces
no emissions and is almost silent in its operation.

Fuso has been a leader in reducing truck emissions in its light duty trucks, with a diesel-electric hybrid
available in Australia and overseas and Euro VI emissions standard light duty truck in overseas
markets. Euro VI is some years away from being mandated in Australia.

Fuso says the "zero emission" Canter E-Cell is particularly suitable for use in limited-mileage
operations in environmentally sensitive areas, for example in city-centre traffic or in eco-zones and
pedestrian precincts.

Being "green" it gives socially conscious organisations, companies and government bodies the
opportunity to show their awareness of the pollution that plagues so many cities.

"The Fuso Canter E-Cell allows us once again to emphasise our leadership in the field of alternative
drive systems," said Dr Albert Kirchmann, president and chief executive of Mitsubishi Fuso Truck and
Bus Corporation.

Kirchmann said the advanced engineering team based in Japan and led by Daimler Trucks, based in
Portugal, have realised another milestone by bringing this technology to the market.

The customer trials with the Canter E-Cell under real-life conditions are set to run for one year. The
vehicle is based on the Canter with a wheelbase of 3400 millimetres and features a wide single cab.
Each of the eight battery-powered test vehicles is fitted with either a tray or pantech body and are
being put to the test under a wide range of conditions.

The trials in Portugal include working in horticultural and waste disposal purposes. Another contractor
will use it for house-to-house deliveries as part of its short-radius distribution service and it will be
tested by the Portuguese postal service on transport runs between its distribution centres.

The design of the electrically powered light-duty truck is based on the chassis of the conventional
Canter and allows a permissible gross vehicle weight of six tonne. The resulting payload of the chassis
is about three tonne.

The electric motor gives it a power output of 110 kW and maximum torque of 650 Nm. It has a
single-speed transmission and both the cardan shaft and the rear axle have been adopted from the
conventionally powered Canter.

Top speed, as with all vehicles in this weight class, is limited to 90 km/h.

Page135of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.On each side of the frame are four battery packs, in two enclosed boxes. The lithium-ion batteries
have a nominal capacity of 48.4kWh which gives the truck a range of more than 100 kilometres.
Charging the batteries takes around seven hours, but a rapid-charging system can reduce this to just
one hour.

Fuso says the vehicle is simple to drive: a twist of the ignition key and, as with a conventional
torque-converter automatic, the driver can select between the gear settings Drive, Reverse and Park.
The practical crawl function in Drive and Reverse is comparable with that of an automatic
transmission.

Whether the truck industry is ready for a fully electric truck is the biggest question though. There is
already one electric truck sold in Europe and the US, the Smith, but it has struck trouble. It's a
marriage of a Czech-built Avia truck and electric motor technology that can be traced back to British
electric milk trucks. But that company has had a rocky year after suspending operations in April only
to be rescued by Chinese battery maker, Sinopoly, in May which injected a claimed $42 million in the
company.

In the Smith case, it was suggested the market is not ready for electric trucks or the price premium
they demand. Fuso, by taking it in small steps, and with the backing of Daimler, is well placed to make
a success of zero emissions, electric truck technology.

IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

i35101 : Passenger Cars | i351 : Motor Vehicles | iaut : Automotive
c31 : Marketing | nrvw : Reviews | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
porl : Portugal | austr : Australia | jap : Japan | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | weurz :
Western Europe
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020140912ea9d0003s

Page136of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.