Cruise ship project player docks at Hope Is holding

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

CommercialProperty
Cruise ship project player docks at Hope Is holding

Phil Bartsch
365 words
6 June 2014
The Courier-Mail
COUMAI
CourierMail
68
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

IT’S a relatively small deal for the man behind the $7.5 billion Broadwater Marine Project, the
biggest property play on the Gold Coast.
A company linked to David Fang, who heads the Chinese-backed ASF consortium, the preferred
developer of the integrated resort and cruise ship terminal, has snapped up a prime waterfront
development site at Hope Island.

Property records show the 5.27ha holding was purchased for almost $2.3 million by Peninsula
Gold Coast Development Pty Ltd, an entity associated with the Sydney-based businessman.
Known as the Harbour Village site, it sits opposite the Hope Island Shopping Centre and Marina at
the intersection of Santa Barbara and Hope Island roads.

With the divestment of the vacant holding, former owner Mirvac has cut the last of its ties to Hope
Island Resort, a 360ha resort and residential community originally developed by Shinko Australia in
the 1990s.
Darrell Irwin and Geoff Lamb of Colliers International negotiated the sale on behalf of the listed
group but declined to comment on the deal.
The Harbour Village site fronts a canal with access to the Broadwater and was sold with a
development approval for residential dwellings.
It is understood the property has significant holding costs due to 187 body corporate lot entitlements
allocated to the parcel. As a result, it is expected any future development will comprise a
medium-density project of townhouses and apartments. The precinct has a four-storey height limit.
An all-weather golf buggy and walking path through the Harbour Village site is a vital link for many
local residents to get to the golf course/clubhouse and shopping centre.

Part of any proposed development of the holding must include the provision and maintenance of the
access path.
The sale of the Harbour Village site follows the recent $12.2 million purchase of Hope Island Golf
Course and clubhouse as well as an approved hotel site by a Hong Kong-based property
developer.The same developer also paid $2.2 million for a further 7456sq m holding with 37
residential lot entitlements within walking distance of the golf course.

IN

NS

i5020017 : Harbor Construction | i502 : Heavy Construction | iconst : Construction | icre : Real
Estate/Construction
c182 : Asset Transactions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter

Page108of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document COUMAI0020140605ea660003g

Page109of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.