(AE) Ferret's MOVING FACES

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

(AE) Ferret's MOVING FACES

1,248 words
12 September 2014
Ralph Wragg Australian Business News
AAPRAW
English
Copyright 2014 RWE AUSTRALIAN BUSINESS NEWS PTY LTD. All Rights Reserved.

Sydney - Friday - September 12: (RWE Australian Business News) - A list of changes of management
within ASX-listed companies.

Moving in ...

* Singapore Telecommunications Ltd reports Paul O'Sullivan will be appointed chairman of Optus. Allen
Lew , currently CEO, Group Digital L!fe, will be appointed CEO Consumer Australia and CEO Optus. Mr
Lew will be based in Australia. Jonathan Auerbach, a new addition to the SingTel leadership team, will be
appointed CEO, Group Digital L!fe. Mr Auerbach joins SingTel from McKinsey & Company , where he
led the Telecommunications, Media and Technology Practice in Asia.
SingTelgroup CEO Chua Sock Koong said, "After 10 years at the helm of Optus, Paul has expressed his
desire for a change to a non full-time role. As the chairman of Optus, Paul continues to be a strong
advocate for our Australian business with his solid experience and knowledge." Ms Chua added, "Allen is
returning to Optus where he previously led the consumer and mobile businesses."

* Luke Tonkin will assume the role of managing director effective November 20. He is currently in the role
of executive director - Operations and has gained a sound understanding of Silver Lake's operations over
the past year. Mr Tonkin has already made a significant contribution to Silver Lake, including the orderly
placement of the Murchison Gold Operations and the Lakewood Mill on care and maintenance.

Les Davis , Silver Lake's founding managing director, will retire effective November 19. Mr Davis has held
this role since May 2007. He has been instrumental in the growth of Silver Lake and has tirelessly driven
the company as its managing director.
* Orica Ltd today announced chief financial officer Craig Elkington had been appointed to the Oricaboard
as executive director Finance. Mr Elkington joined ICI/Orica in 1994 and has held various senior finance,
commercial and executive roles across the group in Australia, Canada and the US. He has held the
CFO positions of former subsidiary Incitec Ltd, the Chemical Division and Orica Mining Services. In 2008,
Mr Elkington was appointed president, Orica Mining Services, North America, based in Denver. He was
appointed executive global head Mining Services in June 2012 and became CFO in November 2013.
* Seven Group Holdings Ltd has appointed Warwick Smith as a non-executive director. Mr Smith is the
chairman, New South Wales and Australian Capital Territory and senior managing director, Australia for
Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd . He is chairman of the Advisory Board of the Australian
Capital Equity Group of Companies. He is also chairman of the Australia China Council, chairman of the
Asia Society Australia and global trustee of the Asia Society. Mr Smith is a former executive director with
the Macquarie Bank Group and a former chairman of E*Trade Ltd.
* Tim Slattery was appointed to the board of APN Property Group Ltd today as an executive director.
He has 11 years' professional experience across real estate investment management, investment
banking and corporate law including a total of six years in various roles with APN, including most recently
as director, Corporate Development. In addition to his time with APN, Mr Slattery has worked with
Herbert Smith Freehills and Goldman Sachs , where he was involved with a range of real estate,
infrastructure and general merger and acquisition and equity and debt financing transactions within
Australia and overseas.

Page146of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.* Brian Davis has been formally appointed as a director of Yellow Rock Resources Ltd. He is a 40-year
veteran of the resources sector and has been principal of exploration and resource development
consultancy group Geologica Pty Ltd for the last 16 years. Mr Davis has worked in exploration and
mining for small and large resource companies focused on commodities including gold, base metals,
vanadium, iron ore, coal, rare earths and diamonds both in Australia and overseas.

* PSivida Corp has elected James Barry as a director. Dr Barry currently serves as executive vice
president and chief operating officer of InspireMD.

* Actinogen Ltd today announced the appointment of Vincent Ruffles as vice president of Clinical
Research. Mr Ruffles will be a member of Actinogen 's executive management team and will be
responsible for providing the overall strategy, scientific and regulatory oversight and direction of clinical
programs of UE2343. He has almost 20 years of experience in pharmaceutical and biotechnology, and
brings a wealth of knowledge in working across all phases of the drug development cycle.

* Metroland Australia Ltd has appointed four directors - Xuejun He, Yicheng Zhang, Zuwen Yuan and
Xiaofeng Wang. Subsequently, Frank Shien , Damian McAdam and Michael Wong have resigned as
directors.

* Mohd Azlan bin Mohammed has been appointed as a non-independent non-executive director of
Mission NewEnergy Ltd effective September 15. Mr Mohd Azlan was nominated by Karisma Integrasi
Sdn Bhd, a Malaysian incorporated company in which he holds a major equity interest and serves as a
director. Karisma Integrasi Sdn Bhd owns a 19.33pc equity interest in Mission NewEnergy .

Mr Mohd Azlan, aged 53, is a Malaysian and is currently the managing director of Wasco Oilfield
Services Sdn Bhd, which is principally involved in the provision of oil and gas services internationally. He
is also the chairman of Indra Technology Solutions Malaysia Sdn Bhd, a subsidiary of Indra Sistemas SA
of Spain. The company designs, develops, produces, integrates, and maintains systems, solutions and
services based on advanced information technologies.
* Joanna Brand has been appointed as an additional company secretary of Billabong International Ltd
while Tracey Wood is on maternity leave until August 2015. Ms Brand will also be taking on the role of
international general counsel during that period.

Moving On ...

* Peter Karpas is stepping down as Xero Ltd 's head of North America after six months in the position.
Ross Jenkins , Xero's CFO, currently based in San Francisco, will lead the US operations until Xero
appoints a replacement for Mr Karpas. CEO Rod Drury said, "We are grateful to Peter for his work and
recognise his contributions in helping Xero become the fastest-growing cloud accounting company
across the globe. In his time at Xero, Peter helped establish strong foundations for Xero in the US
market."

* Andrew Lashbrooke has resigned as chief executive officer (CEO) of Mineral Commodities Ltd . Mr
Lashbrooke reported to executive chairman Mark Caruso and as such, Mr Caruso will assume the role of
CEO in his executive capacity.

* Simavita Ltd today announced the decision of chairman Peter Cook to resign as a director with
immediate effect. Mr Cook was appointed as a director on November 20 2013 at the time of the
acquisition of the Simavita business. He was subsequently appointed as the company's chairman on
January 31 2014.
The board will be seeking to appoint a suitable replacement to fill the vacancy created by Mr Cook's
departure as part of a process of recruitment of additional non-executive directors to the board. Until this
appointment has been made, Ari Bergman will be acting chairman.
* Jamie Gee Choo Khoo has resigned as non-executive director and company secretary of Refresh
Group Ltd. Ms Khoo was appointed director on November 1 2010 and company secretary on March 1
2011. She has taken up an overseas posting and hence will have limited time to oversee the affairs of
Refresh. Non-executive director Dato' Eddie Kwong Choon Soong will take on the role of company
secretary from September 12 2014.
* Robert Bylin has resigned as a director of Water Resources Group and will not be replaced at this
point.

CO
IN

telas : Singapore Telecommunications Limited | tmasek : Temasek Holdings Pte Ltd
i7902 : Telecommunication Services

Page147of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

c411 : Management Moves | c41 : Management | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types
| nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB RWE Australian Business News Pty Ltd
AN

Document AAPRAW0020140912ea9c00105

Page148of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.