Triguboff mulls $3bn offer from China

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Triguboff mulls $3bn offer from China

John Stensholt
608 words
17 April 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
2
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

BillionaireHarry Triguboff, born in a White Russian Jewish enclave in China, has spent 50 years
building Australia's biggest unit company, Meriton Apartments.
But now, aged 81, Australia's fourth-richest person is considering selling half of Meriton to Chinese
interests in a deal that could net him at least $3 billion. It would be the ultimate sale of Australian
apartments to Chinese investors.

Triguboff told AFR Weekend he received an offer for his business on a trip to China two weeks ago
from the owner of a property developer that builds 200,000 dwellings there annually.

"I am thinking I could sell part of [Meriton]," Triguboff said.

"It is very early stages, but I could be prepared to sell the development part of the business and then
the family could continue to collect the rent on the units I already own. Maybe I could retire soon and
they could run the investment business."
He says the company, which carries little debt, is now worth about $6.3 billion after his wealth was
valued at $4.95 billion on the 2013 BRW Rich List.
Meriton, Triguboff says, will make about $300 million profit from unit sales of about $1.1 billion this
year and the company's land bank for future developments has "easily" gone up $200 million in
value in the past 12 months.
The potential sale to the Chinese developer, who Triguboff would not name, would comprise of the
existing developments that are under way.
The rental business makes about $200 million profit each year, Triguboff said, from the 2000 units he
owns in Sydney, Brisbane and the Gold Coast. That business would stay in family hands and is worth
up to $3.5 billion.

Triguboff has mostly built in Sydney and said house prices there have "stabilised" and that better
growth was being experienced in Brisbane, albeit off a relatively low base.Condition on sale

Any move to sell would be a marked shift in strategy for Triguboff, who has famously said for decades
he had little interest in ever retiring. He said his daughters had never shown real interest in taking
over Meriton but that he now has a grandson, Michael, working for him who could potentially head the
investment business the family would continue to own.
However, Triguboff cautioned that any sale would only take place if the Meriton sales business
remains intact.

"I am not selling anything if they are going to start firing people," he said.

Page269of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."Other people think about shareholders, well, I think about my people. I don't look at it if it is a good or
bad deal, I am looking at the evolution of the company. He [the potential buyer] wants apartments
that are able to be sold. Of course there are many Chinese buying in Australia at the moment and
what we have is a lot of apartments that already have a lot of approvals. That is why they are
interested in me."
Triguboff said Australia would be "silly to be afraid of the Chinese" in terms of investment, but warned
foreign property developers could lose interest in investing in Australia if project approvals continued
to unfold at a slow place.

"They do want to be in Australia because it is safe for them, but they can go anywhere they like if they
do not make the money here they want. The planning is still too slow here."
What we have is a lot of apartments that already have a lot of approvals. That is why [the Chinese
buyer is] interested in me. Harry Triguboff

RE

PUB
AN

austr : Australia | china : China | brisbn : Brisbane | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | queensl : Queensland
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140416ea4h00037

Page270of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.