SCUTTLING OUR VOICE IN THE REGION IS A STEP TOO FAR

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Features
SCUTTLING OUR VOICE IN THE REGION IS A STEP TOO FAR

PETER VAN ONSELEN, CONTRIBUTING EDITOR
1,098 words
1 February 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
1 - All-round Country
20
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Beware those tinpot countries keen to fill the void

THE federal government's decision to axe the Australia Network -- yet to be announced publicly but
revealed exclusively in this newspaper on Thursday -- is a classic case of throwing the baby out with
the bath water.

Reform it, cut costs, limit the scope of the network's reach, put a contract to operate it back out to
tender, beef up the soft diplomacy edict of the network's operations or recalibrate programming
decisions as to what it airs.
Any or all of these adjustments to how the $220 million Australia Network functions are well worth
considering, perhaps even necessary.

But scrapping it is fundamentally against Australia's national interests, and would leave a dangerous
broadcasting void in our region.

The Department of Foreign Affairs funds the Australia Network because of the soft diplomacy value of
Australian broadcasting reaching the television sets of our neighbours.

The reach of the network -- into India, across the Asian region and throughout the South Pacific -- is
arguably broader than might be necessary. But that is a debate for limiting the scope of the network,
not scrapping it altogether.

The problem with the decision to terminate the Australia Network is the void it creates in broadcasting,
most notably in the South Pacific region. That void will quickly be filled by other powers, such as China
via its CCTV network, with their soft diplomatic aims being brought to bear on countries such as Fiji,
Tonga, Vanuatu and Papua New Guinea.
And you can bet the Chinese will make a better fist of it than we have. You won't see the Chinese
equivalent of trumped-up allegations that Australian naval personnel deliberately burnt
asylum-seekers' hands getting an airing on CCTV. In fact, you won't see the many genuine stories of
human rights abuses in China airing on CCTV programming beamed into countries currently taking
our Australia Network.
The soft diplomatic arms race in our immediate region is already being won by China, as it facilitates
infrastructure developments and the like that the Australian government is struggling to compete with.
At a time when our aid budget is coming under renewed pressure, the Chinese are expanding theirs --
not for the purpose of goodwill, but for the national advantage such goodwill can lead to.
It is not out of the question that one day soon we'll see Chinese military bases in South Pacific
nations. These tinpot countries -- yes, I'm being disrespectful -- are struggling for survival in the
modern world. We see on a regular basis how up-for-sale their votes and their support are on
everything from UN lobbying to housing asylum-seekers we don't have the intestinal fortitude to take
care of ourselves.

Page99of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.There is little doubt that, as things currently stand, the soft diplomatic value of the Australia Network is
questionable. More re-runs of trashy Australian drama would do more for our national interest than
some of the current affairs Tony Abbott is concerned about (even if his way of expressing such
concerns was beyond clumsy).
But vacating the space will only usher in alternative programming from overseas, with China most
likely to take up the opportunity. That was what happened at the beginning of this millennium, between
the time the Seven Network ceased servicing what was then called Australia Television International
and the ABC stepped in to take over.

Nations in the South Pacific are dependent on the Australia Network for year-round content to
supplement their own very limited national broadcasting. The network might be little more than a
low-grade channel for expats in larger nations throughout central and Southeast Asia, but in the South
Pacific it is much more central to cultural life. Those countries will welcome any substitute
programming other powers are prepared to offer if we pull out.

What is likely to happen to South Pacific cultural life when programming from the world's largest
authoritarian regime steps into the breach?

Our ability to influence directly within our region will take a further hammering, right at a time when it is
already under pressure from growing Chinese investment. This is why the government must embrace
the tough task of reforming the operation of the Australia Network rather than taking the easy option
and terminating it. A dysfunctional network, as I would argue the Australia Network currently is, may
represent little more than a blocking agent to outside influences.

It may even from time to time do us harm when it reports on news not flattering to Australia. But these
aren't reasons for a government searching for savings.

The notion that the Australia Network should be subjected to greater government control in terms of
what it broadcasts isn't an easy thing for anyone who supports a free media to get their heads around.
But it should be.
Unlike domestic media operations, which should be, and hopefully always will be, anything but a
mouthpiece for the government of the day (whatever their various ideological leanings), the Australia
Network is supposed to do the government's bidding in our region.

Whether that means controlled release of current affairs, removing current affairs reporting from the
network because it doesn't serve a diplomatic purpose or simply broadcasting re-runs of Australian
drama -- because that tells a positive tale about Australian life -- that is the role of the network.

All of this is perhaps why a fresh look at who runs the network is worth considering. The public needs
to be mindful that if the network were run, for example, directly by government -- albeit utilising content
from existing domestic networks -- there is a risk it morphs into a propaganda unit targeting expat
votes instead of soft diplomacy.

Nonetheless, when one considers that the primary role of the network is soft diplomacy -- which
essentially means doing the bidding of the government of the day -- something isn't right when that
bidding is being done by the national broadcaster or, for that matter, by any other commercial media
operation.

There is no easy answer as to how to fix the Australia Network in a way that helps it better serve the
purpose for which it was designed. Certainly, it needs to be scaled back and be better targeted.

But terminating it is rash, reactionary and will ultimately be counterproductive to our national interests.

______________________________

>> Peter van Onselen is a professor at the University of Western Australia. He also works for Sky
News.

NS
RE
PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140131ea210003u

Page100of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.