Investor visa changes provide fastrack to residency for premium investors

Kevin Dundo

29 October 2014

Investor visa changes provide fastrack to residency for premium investors

HD
BY
WC 701 words
PD
SN Mondaq Business Briefing
SC
LA
CY
LP

BBPUB
English
(c) 2014 Mondaq Ltd

In a move to encourage foreign investment in Australia, the Federal Government has recently announced
a broadening of the foreign investor visa programme.

In this Alert, Senior Associate Ryan White and Law Graduate Andrew Clements discuss the proposed
changes.

TD

Background

SIVThe Significant Investor visa () was introduced on 24 November 2012 with the aim of encouraging
foreign investment in Australia. It is targeted at people wanting to maintain business and investment
activity in Australia after their original investment in Australia has matured and offers a pathway to
permanent residency for individuals who have an investment of at least $5 million in Australia for at least
four years.
As at 30 September 2014, there has been over $2 billion of SIV investment into Australia with 82 percent
investing in government bonds or management funds. 88 percent of SIV investment has come from
China.1

The recent changes to the SIV programme seek to further capitalise on these investments in Australia and
diversify the sources of investors under the programme. Changes to the programme will target investors
more effectively, and strategically direct these investments at areas of priority to the Australian economy.

In light of competition for investors from countries whose visa programmes often have less onerous
application criteria and processing requirements, the Federal Government will streamline the programme's
administration.

These changes are part of a broader policy shift by the Federal Government, which is looking for ways to
encourage greater international investment in Australia.

The Changes

PIVThe most significant change proposed is the introduction of a new Premium Investor visa (), which will
offer a faster 12-month pathway to permanent residency for those who have an investment of at least $15
million.

The key changes planned, include:

The criteria for eligible investments will be changed, so that they align with "the Government's national
investment priorities".

The criteria for eligible investments will be determined by the Federal Government's Austrade agency in
consultation with the key economic and industry portfolios.

Austrade will also become a nominating body for the SIV (in addition to the current role of state and
territory governments' as nominators) and will be the sole agency that can nominate applicants for the
PIV.

Page70of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Administrative changes to streamline and speed up visa processing, better promote the programme
internationally and strengthen integrity protections.

We note that one interesting development is the increased role that Austrade will play under these
changes. This may take some power away from the State and Territory governments and will facilitate
greater investment in areas the Federal Government deems to be key economic and industry portfolios.
While the key areas for eligible investment are yet to be identified, it is expected that the areas will be
aligned with the Federal Government's investment priorities, including:

Food and agribusiness;
Resources and energy;

Economic infrastructure;

Tourism and education; and

Advanced services, manufacturing and technologies.

The increased investment threshold will increase opportunities to attract investment from foreign high net
worth individuals. Investors and their advisors must still remain conscious of issues associated with those
investments, including the cross border-tax implications and the possibility that over time the Federal
Government's criteria for eligible investments may change.

It is likely that the PIV will be introduced from 1 July 2015, while changes to the existing SIV will take
place during 2014-2015. Implementation of the changes will be closely followed.

Footnote

1Department of Immigration and Border Protection, Significant Investor visa statistics available at:
http://www.immi.gov.au/pub-res/Pages/statistics/significant-investor-visa-statistics.aspx

© HopgoodGanim Lawyers
Award-winning law firm HopgoodGanim offers commercially-focused advice, coupled with reliable and
responsive service, to clients throughout Australia and across international borders.

The content of this article is intended to provide a general guide to the subject matter. Specialist advice
should be sought about your specific circumstances.

Mr Kevin Dundo

HopgoodGanim

Level 8, Waterfront Place

1 Eagle Street

Brisbane

Queensland 4000

AUSTRALIA

Tel: 730240000

Fax: 730240300

E-mail: contactus@hopgoodganim.com.au

URL: www.hopgoodganim.com.au

Click Here for related articles

(c) Mondaq Ltd, 2014 - Tel. +44 (0)20 8544 8300 - http://www.mondaq.com

NS
RE

ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

Page71of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IPD Government
PUB Mondaq Limited
AN

Document BBPUB00020141031eaat00003

Page72of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.