New Zealand : Emirates and Jetstar launch new codeshare and frequent flyer agreement

15 February 2014

HD
WC 449 words
PD
SN Mena Report
SC MENREP
LA
CY
LP

New Zealand : Emirates and Jetstar launch new codeshare and frequent flyer agreement

English
© 2014 Al Bawaba (Albawaba.com). Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com Company

TD

Emirates and Jetstar have announced an agreement which is set to open up new destinations for
Emirates passengers across Australia, New Zealand and South East Asia as the Dubai-based airline
continues to connect people, places and passions. Emirates code will now be placed on a number of
routes operated by Jetstar Airways in Australia and New Zealand and Jetstar Asia, giving passengers
access to 27 new routes and six new destinations such as Bali in Indonesia, Byron Bay in Australia,
Dunedin in New Zealand and Siem Reap in Cambodia*. Members of Emirates Skywards, the airline s
frequent flyer programme, will be able to earn Miles for flights on Jetstar-operated routes which have the
Emirates code, they will also be able to use their Miles to purchase reward flights on any Jetstar operated
route**, starting from just 7,025 Skywards Miles.

This new link between Emirates and Jetstar offers our passengers a number of benefits including new
routes to destinations that are not part of the Emirates network today, said Adnan Kazim, Emirates
Divisional Senior Vice President, Planning, Aeropolitical & Industry Affairs. The link between Emirates and
Jetstar is also fantastic news for our Emirates Skywards members, giving them more options to use their
Miles to explore new countries and cultures, added Mr Kazim. This agreement will see us bring our
extensive Asia Pacific network consisting of some of the most popular leisure destinations, to the doorstep
of Emirates passengers across the globe, said Lisa Brock, Jetstar Group Chief Commercial Officer.
Working with Emirates we have created a product and a network offering that will provide Emirates
passengers with a range of new holiday options, in turn driving inbound tourism traffic to Australian
destinations including Hamilton Island, Byron Bay and Uluru. Emirates customers travelling on Jetstar will
enjoy a range of full service fare features such as food and beverage options and the same luggage
allowance they would have on Emirates. From 6 April, all Emirates passengers on Jetstar flights will
receive boarding passes on check-in at their first international departure point for connecting international
services. The codeshare includes seven domestic routes in Australia to add to the 50 that Emirates
already codeshares with Qantas; four new routes in New Zealand, six new routes between Australian and
New Zealand over the Tasman Sea and ten international routes out of Singapore to Indonesia, Cambodia,
Vietnam, Malaysia, Thailand and Hong Kong. Emirates/ Jetstar codeshare itineraries will be on sale from
the 13th February 2014 for travel from the 6th April 2014. Emirates frequent flyers will be able to redeem
flights with points from the 1st March 2014.

CO jetass : Jetstar Asia Airways Pte Ltd | oxair : Jetstar Airways Pty Ltd | emtal : Emirates Airline | ostihl :

Orangestar Investment Holdings Ltd | qntas : Qantas Airways Ltd
i75 : Airlines | iairtr : Air Transport | itsp : Transportation/Shipping | i7501 : Scheduled Passenger Airlines |
ilowair : Low Cost Airlines
austr : Australia | nz : New Zealand | kampa : Cambodia | indon : Indonesia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz :
Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies
| indochz : Indo-China | seasiaz : Southeast Asia

IN

RE

IPD Transportation - Airports & Aviation
PUB Al Bawaba.com, Inc.
AN

Document MENREP0020140215ea2f001et

Page170of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.