Consmin Q2 manganese ore output up, TMI exits offtake deal

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
VOL
LA
CY
LP

TD

News Stories; Ferroalloys & Steel
Consmin Q2 manganese ore output up, TMI exits offtake deal

Marnie Hobson, with Andy Blamey in London
1,020 words
1 September 2014
Platts Metals Daily
METLSDLY
ISSN: 2325-0658, Volume 3, Issue 171
English
© 2014 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

Manganese ore prodcution from Consolidated Minerals' Australian and Ghanaian operations rose 1%
year on year to 870,800 mt in the April-June quarter, the Australian miner said August 29.
Consmin shipped a total of 868,000 mt of manganese ore in Q2, up 4% year on year, the company
said. Q2 shipments from Australia increased 28% year on year to 421,000 mt, while shipments from
Ghana fell 12% over the same period to 446,000 mt.

Consmin said the Ghana decline was due to the impact of inclement weather on new transshipping
operations, which started in open waters off Takoradi port in February.
Consmin said it continues to ship product to customers in China, Ukraine, India, South Korea, Norway
and Vietnam. But the company also revealed that it its key Chinese customer, Ningxia Tianyuan
Manganese Industry, has withdrawn from a long-term manganese ore offtake deal.
Consmin said in its quarterly results statement it had recently received notification from TMI — China's
largest electrolytic manganese metal producer — "that as a result of fundamental operational issues
they will be unable to continue to perform on the long-term offtake agreement."

TMI informed Consmin that it would be unable to continue to perform on the long-term contract "due to
operational difficulties it has experienced with its newly constructed EMM production lines," the
company said, adding: "Initially the disruption was considered to be temporary but later it was found to
be a longer-term issue."

TMI had constructed four additional EMM lines to substantially increase its production; the lines were
fully completed by the end of November 2013, with production expected to begin the follpowing month,
Consmin said. But the additional lines were not made operational until June 2014, due to a six-month
delay in connecting them to the national grid by the provincial government.

"Shortly after these lines began running, their transformers began failing and in early August only a
small proportion of the new capacity was operational. As a result of the delays manganese ore
consumption was far below planned levels and TMI's stockpiles grew and currently significantly exceed
their updated expected future needs," it added.
TMI's creditors have forced the company to reduce its manganese ore stocks and get its new lines
fully operational before financing the purchase of any more manganese ore — a process which may
take up to two years, Consmin said.

TMI's withdrawal from the 10-year offtake deal has resulted in a termination event and a termination
letter has been issued to TMI to protect Consmin's position, the company said, adding that it has also
issued instruction to its bank to draw on the $50 million standby letter of credit to offset the damages
that it will suffer as a result of the early termination of the offtake agreement.

"Ongoing conciliatory discussions are being held between the parties in order to resolve this matter,"
Consmin CFO David Slater said in the company's quarterly results announcement.

Page68of186©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The termination of the agreement is credit negative for Consmin "because TMI was its single-largest
customer, and its loss will materially affect the company's financial performance at least through the
rest of this year," ratings agency Moody's said September 1.

The size of the loss of revenue and EBITDA from the termination "is difficult to quantify because it
depends on factors such as how quickly the company can find alternative customers for such large
volumes, and the actual terms of any new offtake agreements," Moody's said.

"We expect that it will take several months for Consmin to find suitable replacement customers,
because other existing or new EMM customers outside of China generally have more modest needs
than TMI, which was Consmin's exclusive customer in China for its Ghanaian manganese ore," the
agency added.

Announcing the deal in July 2013, Consmin said the agreement covered around two-thirds of
production from its Ghanaian mine and gave both companies "security to continue planned expansions
while pursuing further production efficiency."
Consmin’s search for a new EMM customer "will be challenging because China's business
environment for EMM producers has worsened in the past six months, as reflected by manganese ore
stocks at main Chinese ports that totalled 3.34 million mt at the end of June, a 680,000 mt increase
from the beginning of the year," Moody's suggested.
In the absence of new large EMM customers, "the company will likely need to reduce its production
and sales target from its Ghanaian mine for the rest of the year, which would lead to an increase in its
mining cash cost per tonne," the agency said.
Consmin produced manganese ore at a cost of $2.46/dmtu in Q2, the same as Q2 2013.
The company received an average Q2 price for its manganese ore of $4.80/dmtu for 46% Mn CIF
China, down 15% from $5.67/dmtu in Q1. That compares with a global average price for Q2 of
$4.43/dmtu for 44% Mn, CIF China, down 13% from $5.08/dmtu in Q1, it said.
Consmin said demand and market sentiment for manganese ore from China continued to soften in Q2
due to tighter credit and environmental measures, including the forced idling of some steel mills, which
dampened economic activity.
"Pricing weakness in the alloy market has led to many manganese ore producers scaling back ore
purchases in favor of using up stocks and buying to cover only short-term requirements," it said.
"However, despite increasing port stocks throughout the quarter manganese ore prices seem to have
stabilized and have remained at this level into the third quarter."
Consmin said it expects to receive an average price of around $4.60-4.65/dmtu for its manganese ore
in Q3.
Consmin produces manganese ore from its Woodie Woodie mine in the Pilbara, Western Australia, and
at the GMC mine in the western region of Ghana.

Marnie Hobson, with Andy Blamey in London

NS
RE

IPD
PUB
AN

ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
ghana : Ghana | china : China | austr : Australia | africaz : Africa | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging
Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | wafrz : West Africa
Production
The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Document METLSDLY20140929ea9100009

Page69of186©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.