Genesee & Wyoming at Bank of America Merrill Lynch Transportation Conference - Final

HD Genesee & Wyoming at Bank of America Merrill Lynch Transportation Conference - Final
WC 6,254 words
PD 8 May 2014
SN CQ FD Disclosure
SC FNDW
LA English
CY © 2014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.
LP

Presentation

TD

KEN HOEXTER, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: (Beginning in progress) go on with our next
presentation, Genesee & Wyoming, which is the largest regional railroad, with operations in the US,
Australia, Canada, and Europe. With us today we've got TJ Gallagher, CFO, who had a nice struggle of
getting here, so we truly appreciate him getting here. The airplanes aren't as reliable as the trains. So, he
did find a way to get here. So, with that, I will turn it over to TJ. He's going to give some brief comments,
maybe just opening introduction, one-minute opening intro, and then we'll just do some Q&A, as we've
been doing back and forth all day, and then we'll open up to the audience for questions.

TIMOTHY GALLAGHER, CFO, GENESEE & WYOMING, INC.: Yes, thanks, Ken. I've just got one slide, if I
can figure out how to find it. We've all had those travel days where you're flight's cancelled, you've got to go
to a different airport. If you've been to the -- LaGuardia, you know there's the US Air shuttle, then there's
the Delta shuttle that are different terminals. Well, my flight was canceled at US Airways, so I had to make
it to Delta, got there at about five to 9:00 for the 9:00 a.m. shuttle, which was, thankfully, [15] minutes
delayed, so I'm here. But that -- I mean, that's fine, but my phone died and won't take a charge, so now I'm
like almost really stranded.

So, we released car loads this morning, April car loads, so I thought it was, like, new information for the
group here. I would talk about the business trends. Car loads were great in April, up 8% over the prior year,
strength in the areas that we expected, obviously, agricultural products, strong US harvest, strong
Australian harvest due to timing of the way the Australian car loads fluctuate, is actually most of this was
US and Canada, all across different regions within the US.
Coal, very strong, continuing to trend from latter part of the first quarter, particularly strength in the Midwest
and Ohio. These were the two areas that were hardest hit during the winter. Some of the key steam coal
plants that we serve were down to seven days, eight days of inventory when they normally like to carry 30
to 35, 40, so strong volumes there. Metallic ores, for the past 12 months we've been showing significant
year-over-year growth on a monthly and quarterly basis for metallic ores. We're getting close to
grandfathering the expansion of our iron ore service, and so where before, six, eight months ago we were
up 50%, we're now 10%. And so, by the May-June timeframe, we'll probably be grandfathering that
expansion.

Metals up 8%, Northeast and Canada, inbound scrap, outbound slab steel, good there. Minerals and stone,
that's primarily Australia. We've got a customer that's basically going out of business there. And petroleum
products, really that's crude by rail and LPG gases. Crude by rails are volume both in -- are down both in
Canada, the West Coast, and the Gulf Coast. Again, this is a few trains here, a few trains there, but that's
the net total. LPG volumes, last year we saw tremendous growth in our LPG business, both in the Rocky
Mountain West region as well as in our Pacific region. And with this winter that we had, the flows of
petroleum -- of LPG gas have just been turned upside-down. And so, the volumes are down a little bit, but
we expect them to recover.
And then, the last other column, that's really class I overhead traffic, some empty coal trains that we're
carrying on behalf of a class I railroad. So, car loads up strong. I'll remind you that we gave guidance for
car loads being up 3% to 4% in the first quarter. I gave that guidance with knowledge of the way April was
going to turn out, so this is not better than expected. April car loads were about where we thought they'd
be. There was sort of an unusual pattern of car loads in the second quarter from last year, so -- but we're
right on track.

Page290of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.So, with that, I'll open up to Q&A and the fireside chat part -- while Ken is chewing, yes. Good timing there.

Questions and Answers

KEN HOEXTER: First time I've taken a bite all day. So, when you look at the April car loads, how do you --
you said you kind of knew what [was] running at that pace. How do you look at that of pent-up demand?
What is pent-up demand versus what you expect to be kind of an ongoing base?

TIMOTHY GALLAGHER: These car load levels are what -- I mean, if you'd asked me in January, or maybe
December, what do you think April car loads will be, they'd be at about this total. The mix of business is
slightly different. Auto is down. I would have said it'd be up a little bit. I think that's really residual issues
from the winter. I think that's car supply issues, not any weakness in the auto industry, which I think is still
pretty good. Petroleum products are a little softer than we would have expected.
Coal was a little stronger than we expected. I think I said at the beginning of the year coal would be up 4%
to 5% year-over-year. Given the winter we had, I think it's going to be up a little bit more than that. That's
going to be one of those commodities that actually does better than we expected because of the harsh
winter weather.

So, a little different mix, but, in terms of overall volumes, right about where we expected. So, the mixture of
some pent-up demand, some residual winter issues, and then the strength that we expected.

KEN HOEXTER: All right, so let me start off with some bigger-picture issues, and then we'll get into
Australia, US, and the like in a minute. Update on timing on the RCP&E, is there any movement? What are
you waiting for? Is it just STB approval and then you close, or what?

TIMOTHY GALLAGHER: Right now it's just we are planning for a late second quarter startup, and we're on
track with that. So, really it's just getting all the pieces in place to serve the customers. This transaction is
unlike the ones we've been doing for a number of years in that we're not buying an existing company that's
an existing operating business. We are buying certain amount of track from the CP. We are hiring 180
employees. We are purchasing 50 locomotives. We are acquiring hundreds of grain hopper cars. So, we're
really building a business from the ground up. It's really a startup. So, there's a lot more work to do upfront
in terms of getting things ready to have a smooth transition. But still, second quarter, later -- latter part.

KEN HOEXTER: Okay. Any updated thoughts on the short-line tax credit? It seemed like it was put into one
of the bills, one of the interim bills, but your thoughts on if there's a chance that that moves along quickly, or
now are we just waiting for some other large legislation that it just gets tacked on?

TIMOTHY GALLAGHER: Yes. Despite having that bill passed, or its movement in the Senate, I continue to
believe that, if anything happens this year, it's going to be -- it will follow the same pattern as the last three
extensions, which is in the fourth quarter in the year after it has expired. So, with respect to support,
including co-sponsors, or including the initial sponsor, we have 50 senators, so that's half the Senate. We
have more than half the House. And so, it's got strong bipartisan support, both the House and the Senate,
so it is really just looking for a home, a legislative home. And I continue to believe that that's probably more
likely in the latter part of the year.

KEN HOEXTER: Okay. Looking at your operating ratio target of 74%, you did 80% in the first quarter. It
indicates a sizable ramp targeted. How do you feel about that now that we're midway through, or early part
of May here?

TIMOTHY GALLAGHER: Oh, well, I think we've just got to put the first quarter aside. There was so much --
I mean, the weather impact on our operation, particularly the ones we mentioned on our call last week,
were so significant that it's not the trend that's likely -- it doesn't represent the underlying core business. So,
the guidance we gave represented what we believed to be the underlying core business. So, a lot of that
extra fuel burn, it's not going to happen in the second quarter like it did in the first quarter. The overtime -- I
mean, those are costs that -- the extra snow removal, that's just not going to happen. So, I see no reason
why we can't deliver the results that we talked about last week.

KEN HOEXTER: Wonderful. Let's jump to Australia. This got a lot of attention when we were hosting
meetings a couple weeks ago. It's a smaller portion of the business, yet the focus was in -- a sizable
amount on China, and yet it -- maybe you can just kind of walk through. You've noted the relevance of
China is relatively small, maybe about a third of the business. Maybe walk through how that third is doing
relative to original expectation.

TIMOTHY GALLAGHER: Yes, no change. So, our business in Australia is very different from our business
in North America. So, North America we've got literally thousands of customers. In Australia, there's literally
two hands worth of customers. So, they tend to be bigger. On the -- a big chunk of our business is
intermodal. That's domestic intermodal, feeding and fueling the Northern Territory of Australia, everything

Page291of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.from white goods, food, fuel, anything [you're able] to put in a container, the equivalent of Home Depot-type
stuff. And that's purely domestic.
Our Ag business is export. That's not driven by China. You really have to look at the metallic ores, and it's
really three parts. There's iron ore, manganese, and copper concentrate. The copper is a global
commodity, although I think a lot of this stuff is being shipped to China. Manganese and iron ore, clearly
that's destined to China. One thing that we found is that we serve relatively smaller customers. These are
not the global scale BHPs and Rio Tintos and [Valleys] of the world, which have a portfolio of massive
operations. These are companies that have single or two productive mines, and whether China's growing
at 5%, 7%, 8%, or whether iron ore's trading at $115 a ton or $125 a ton, they're still producing flat-out.
And so, for all the China headline stuff you see, our current ongoing business doesn't change one iota. I
think the one thing that is a fair thing to observe is long-term expectations for iron ore prices could have an
impact on future -- potential future projects, right? So, if iron ore prices are forecast to be $150, a certain
number of projects are viable. If iron ore prices are going to be $50, might be where a decade ago, then
that would remove some supply.

But, our existing customers today serve facilities that are -- they're not top quartile, but they're sort of in the
middle, which makes us feel very good that, within any normal range of iron ore prices, that they're going
to produce at the same rates they are today.

KEN HOEXTER: And so, given that Australia then is 22% of your revenues, and this is what you're talking
about, 1/3 of the mix, given the intermodal and the other products, let's talk about that for a minute,
because you've gained a big contract. You noted you were about to grandfather that in a couple of months.
What are the other projects and developmental pace, and how long do they take to come on? And are they
pushing along, or are they just behind--?

TIMOTHY GALLAGHER: --They're -- well, they take longer than you'd like, and longer than you'd expect.
These are Greenfield projects. Think of them like a tech startup on the West Coast, so they -- things always
take longer than you'd expect as they go through various phases of -- again, they've got to go through
rounds of fundraising from a financing standpoint. From a technical standpoint, they discover the resource,
then they have to prove out the resource, then they have to design their operation, file the environmental
impact statements.

And I think when we first acquired FreightLink in 2010, I said I think these are sort of three to five years to
get these projects up and running, and I think the three-year was optimistic, and it's probably five to seven
years. So, they take a long time, but they plug along. And one thing that we found is that projects you think
are going to -- I mean, it's just like an acquisition. Projects you think are going to move quickly suddenly
slow down, and projects that you think have slowed down or died pop back up.

And so, there's dozens of projects we're looking at at any given time, maybe six to 10 or more active, and
they go in and out of that active-inactive. But, there's still a lot of things we're looking at that are very
attractive, but I couldn't tell you what's the next commodity. Is it going to be coal? Is it going to be copper?
Is it going to be iron ore? And I couldn't tell you if it's going to be in South Australia, if it's going to be in the
Northern Territory. I mean, there's just a lot of stuff going on still.
KEN HOEXTER: So, how then do you prepare for that? I guess you're not -- until that contract is firm,
committed, you're not buying the assets. You don't need to build anything because you're using an open
access network.

TIMOTHY GALLAGHER: Right. So, we own -- like, if it's going to be in South Australia or the Northern
Territory, we own the track, and because these are effectively startup companies, junior mining
companies, until they're fully funded, that is they have what's called a bankable feasibility study, once that's
approved and they can go out and get bank lending to their project, we feel pretty good, because by that
point they'll have off-take contracts signed. They'll have signed their own contracts for their own equipment.

At that time, we'll sign the transportation agreement with them and then order our own equipment, and
there'll be enough sort of financial stability or financial wherewithal associated with the project that we're
confident it will move forward. And so, we only -- when we announce a deal, that's when we effectively sign
and order the equipment.

KEN HOEXTER: So, it's going to be very lumpy over the next couple of years in terms of the timing and
size of these contracts.

TIMOTHY GALLAGHER: Yes. If you think about Australia, in the US your volumes kind of grow at GDP-ish
plus or minus kind of rates. Right now it's 8% car loads, but it could be 2% or 5%. In Australia, once you get
a mine up and running, it tends to run at that level, and so it's going to be a series of stairsteps, if you will,
steady production, new project, it goes up, then you kind of flatline the production, new project, it goes up.

Page292of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.When some mine runs out, a step function down, but it's going to move more like that in a step-up,
step-down fashion as opposed to sort of low -- some 2% to 8% growth.

KEN HOEXTER: Okay. And let me just wrap up then on the existing contracts. Are there still step-ups from
these contracts, or as you just mentioned, are we now at the level you're going to run at?

TIMOTHY GALLAGHER: Right now we're at the current level. I mean, the last step-up we had was first -- I
mean, the first major step-up post FreightLink was the startup of Southern Iron. And then, shortly
thereafter, there was a step-up when they expanded the production. And so, we're grandfathering that, so
the next step-up will be with the next project that we announce.

KEN HOEXTER: Okay.

TIMOTHY GALLAGHER: Which I can't tell you when that's going to be.
KEN HOEXTER: I'm sorry, which date?

TIMOTHY GALLAGHER: (Inaudible) -- yes.

KEN HOEXTER: And then, let's wrap up on Australia, just going back to the intermodal for a second. Your
thoughts on the growth from -- I guess is that more consistent from Darwin Adelaide in terms of consistent
growth and performance?

TIMOTHY GALLAGHER: Yes. So, the intermodal is more like the rest of our -- see, North American
business from the standpoint of GDP kind of growth and rate on top of that. So, over the past few years, if
you strip out the currencies, that business has been growing at about 10%, which is probably half-rate, half
-- maybe 3% to 4% rate and 6%, 7% volume. We've -- because we've improved our service so dramatically
and our on-time deliveries, it's about a 48-hour journey top to bottom, or bottom to top, and if you're
ordering just-in-time inventories for the restaurants or for your stores, you want reliable service. And as we
have improved the reliability of the service from one FreightLink -- essentially when we acquired
FreightLink, we've been taking share from the road. So, we've been moving stuff off the road, onto the rails,
and that's been a good part of our growth. But, that will look more like in the future some kind of Northern
Territory GDP plus rate kind of growth.

KEN HOEXTER: All right, so let's swing back to the US and 70% of the business. I think you've noted
you've got about a 23% market share of the short line.

TIMOTHY GALLAGHER: Well, it depends on how you -- I mean, the one way you can measure it is by
miles, or by number of railroads, and it's around 20% to 23%, depending on which metric you look at.
There's no public data on revenues or anything like that. So, it's just 20%, 22%.

KEN HOEXTER: Okay. So, looking at that, but I think you've also mentioned there are not many with a $1
billion enterprise value, and there may be more in that $5 million range and below. What are your
thoughts on the market? Are you still looking to acquire and increase penetration within certain of your now
newer regions? How do you think about (inaudible)?

TIMOTHY GALLAGHER: We're always looking, and, I mean, we're such a big player in the short line
industry. I mean, look, we're everywhere. We know everybody. They know us. They know that we're a good
operator. People who want to sell their railroads, they'll pick up the phone and call us. So, we know about
any transaction that takes place. We're a preferred buyer, because we're long-term railroaders. We're not
private equity guys who are going to flip it in five years. So, we always hear about those.

So, there are deals. We can't tell you when they're going to happen. We continue to believe that one of the
driving forces within the short-line industry in terms of transactions will be the aging entrepreneur. That's
been the source of a significant number of our deals for the past, say, eight to nine years. A guy who grew
up in the business, in the short-line industry, went and started when he was 30 or 40, he's now 60 or 70,
and he wants to cash out and go home. So, that's when they sell. And I think a lot of people are probably in
the same age bracket as our chairman, Mort Fuller, and so as they either pass it down to their family
members or they'll sell. So, we continue to believe there'll be a lot of opportunity in North America.

KEN HOEXTER: Let's now step back a little bit onto one of the acquisitions you did do, a very large one,
Rail America. And now, you've got to take a step back and kind of walk us through in hindsight how well the
integration went, where -- things you still have ability to improve, and where, looking back now, can you
take advantage of it and get more synergies out of the acquisition?

TIMOTHY GALLAGHER: Yes. So, I think, in terms of synergies, we're done, and we think of synergies as
primarily two -- I mean, the biggest source of synergies was the corporate headquarters. I mean, they had
a corporate headquarters about the same size as our corporate headquarters. Keep in mind that Rail

Page293of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.America, which is purely North American, their North American business was as big as our North American
business. And so, the $40 million of synergies that we talked about, that was basically the headquarters.

At the regional level, we've owned the railroads for coming up on a year and a half. I think all -- the first
year was -- the integration took place. We got systems and people and processes in place. There was a lot
of turnover at the railroad general manager level. I think we said we turned over a significant number of the
railroad -- of the Rail America railroad general managers. So, there was a lot of staffing issues,
people-process issues, but we're -- everything's pretty much one company.
We don't talk about Rail America properties versus G&W properties. We just talk about one company.
What's more to do, really it's the cultural evolution. Rail America did things in a different way than we did.
So, the commercial culture we're evolving, the safety culture we're evolving, and those are things that just
don't take place in the first 12 months. But, it's all going in the right direction.
KEN HOEXTER: It'd be impressive if they really are one company already, just given that CSX, I think they
still call them Chessie or Seaboard, so it's -- I know rails have this legacy, and Rail America was also
dozens of companies itself.

TIMOTHY GALLAGHER: Right.

KEN HOEXTER: When you look at investment opportunities -- and I mean from now let's go back and look
at the commodity mix and look at -- you talk about stairstep function in Australia in terms of new business
awards. Maybe talk a little bit about, in any of the commodities where you've got some new products or
new developments, and maybe even the (inaudible) in Canada is one good example of something large
that's coming onto the network. Because given your size, these projects can still be meaningful. And so, I
know you and I talked about some of the industrial development that was going on within the infrastructure.

TIMOTHY GALLAGHER: Yes. So, industrial development, it's like the projects in Australia. They're big, or
they can be big, not -- they're not all big. But, you look at a lot of projects, and you have a relatively low
batting average. I mean, so every -- if a site along our railroad is one of five or six sites that a company
may be selecting for development, you don't win every single one. You may win one in five, so there's a
20% batting average.

So, your goal there is to develop as big of a hopper of opportunities and keep more -- ones coming in, keep
them coming in as they drop out, keep it filled. But, that's an area of our company we're continuing to
develop. And so, I still think we're early days on industrial development, but I'm really excited about all the
things that we're working on. And it's every commodity. It can be -- we just opened up a frac sand
trans-load facility in Texas. We're working on crude trans-loads to grow our crude-by-rail business. We're
working on -- I mean, it really -- if I'm looking at all these commodities, I mean, it could be half the
commodities. I mean, there's a lot of work I think we'll probably try to do in South Dakota once we close the
RCP&E to help drive additional business, but it's really most of the commodities in most regions.

KEN HOEXTER: So, maybe -- that's a great explanation in terms of jumping in on. So, when you take over
the RCP&E, here's a network that a large class I rail maybe wasn't able to pay as much attention to this
portion of the network that they've got. When you go in there and you are able to close, what's the first
thing you do? Is it building up that marketing force to then go and get customers on there that never used
rail and convince them to start converting over the freight?

TIMOTHY GALLAGHER: Well, I think most of the customers use rail, but then what was -- did they use all
the rail that they could. Like, you can truck grain. You can move grain by rail. I think it's fair to say that CP,
when under their ownership, I mean, they were maximizing CP's profits, which is very rational thing to do.
As a short-line owner of those assets, we will connect three class Is, and our goal is going to be to
maximize profits overall. And so, we're agnostic whether traffic flows to BN or UP or CP. We want the best
deal for our customers and maximize rail volume. So, we'll have a different goal, and then hopefully we'll be
putting in the people resources, the equipment resources, to make sure that we can capture all that traffic.

KEN HOEXTER: Let me see if there are any questions from the audience. All right, let me jump over to one
of your smaller portions, skipping over Canada for a minute and going right to Europe. You've mentioned
either we need to expand, disband. Jack noted that you're constantly looking at acquisitions. How do you --
what do you attack? I mean, is it going in and looking at the competitors and saying, okay, that's how we
need to expand? How do you address that 1% of them (inaudible)?

TIMOTHY GALLAGHER: Yes. So, I mean, again, reminder for people, we got into Europe in the Port of
Rotterdam, a rail -- a switching business, a company called Rotterdam Rail Feeding, which we acquired,
as I like to remark, at the worst possible time, in April 2008, if you think about where the world was going to.
And so, we've got a -- over the last, I guess, five years, we've put together a very good management team.
We've expanded the business. It is an intensely competitive business. It's not like rail in the States or
Canada, which is my track is my track. I mean, Europe is all open access. In some ways it's more like a

Page294of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.trucking business because you've got 20 rail operators in the Netherlands, not two or three. And so, you're
always hustling to gain new business.

Because Europe has been such a weak economy, a lot of our competitors are now falling by the wayside. I
mean, they're in financial distress because of the competition. And so, we've been able to pick up some
contracts, some people, some assets, and we're continuing to look at more. There are other companies like
us in Europe who are smaller companies focused more on the last mile switching or specific lane. We run
traffic from the Port of Rotterdam or Antwerp to the German border as sort of a shuttle service. That's about
60 or 70 miles. That allows the long-haul carriers who may be, say, be brining grain from Hungary to --
through Germany, they can stop and let us take the cars the rest of the way to the Port of Rotterdam.

Incidentally, the reason why that's a value-add is because, every time you cross borders, you have to
change the PTC system, if you will, on the locomotive. So, even though it's a common market, the safety
system, as they call them, in Germany is different than the Netherlands, which is different than Belgium,
and the Port of Rotterdam has a different safety system than the Netherlands. So, if you have locomotives
that can traverse the borders because you have compatible safety systems, you can add value to the
long-haul operator who doesn't.

So, there are companies out there who are basically doing, as I said, like what we're doing, and we
continue to score opportunities. Some are bigger, some are smaller, some are like us. Some could be
hundreds of millions of dollars.

KEN HOEXTER: Okay. Lastly, on the -- well, I guess not lastly, but looking at regulations up in Canada in
terms of crude by rail, it's about, what, 7% of your total business now, is that right?

TIMOTHY GALLAGHER: Yes, 7%, 8%.

KEN HOEXTER: So, what are your thoughts on changing regulations, whether it's the DOT 111 cars or
terminal operations? How does that impact your business overall, and how do you see the growth, given
that car loads come in just given the mix and spread changes?

TIMOTHY GALLAGHER: One thing that I think we talked about early on is that crude by rail was going to
be for the rail industry. It's been a source of tremendous growth, but it's also going to be one of significant
volatility. It's not like you're serving a steel mill and X percent of the inbound or outbound goes by rail. This
is traffic that is going to move east or west, north or south, through a pipeline or through rail based on
spreads. I mean, the energy guys are very smart. They're going to maximize their profit on every barrel.
And so, it's just going to be, by its nature, a more volatile volume business.
With respect to regulation, we support enhanced tank car standards as a company. We think that's a good
thing. With respect to any regulatory requirements from an operational standpoint, we already meet or
exceed those requirements. So, from an operating standpoint, what the Canadians have announced and
what the DOT in the US has announced, I mean, that's all good. So, I don't think the regulations
themselves will have any long-term impact on our business. We think that's a better way to operate. I think,
long-term, I think it's more about the market spreads and whether there's an opportunity to attractively ship
by rail or by pipeline or some other means.

KEN HOEXTER: Let's jump to the CFO hat in terms of the balance sheet and ability to expand, and expand
the revolver and make additional acquisitions, maybe just set the stage a little bit in terms of how the
capitalization.
TIMOTHY GALLAGHER: Yes. So, we announced the acquisition of the DM&EF, the west end of the
DM&E in early January. We planned on financing that through our existing credit facility. We have about a
$400 million revolver, $425 million, about $25 million is drawn. So, from my perspective, I could have
drawn down $210 million and left $200 million of capacity left. If some of the projects we're working on,
we would exceed that capacity, that remaining capacity, so rather than draw down on a revolver today and
then maybe a few months or later in the year have to expand the facility, we just decided let's expand the
facility today and keep a lot of dry powder.

So, the bank market is great right now. Our incremental cost of borrowing is under 2%. So, it's a very
attractive debt market for us. So, with this DM&Eacquisition, we are extending the maturity of our credit
facility, so it'll be a brand-new five-year facility, putting the funds needed for the RCP&E through additional
term loan and then expanding our revolver to $600 million. So, basically, at the time of closing, we'll have
about $600 million of dry powder. So, it's really all about we see a lot of opportunity out there, and we want
to make sure that we have the flexibility to act if we're successful.

KEN HOEXTER: All right. So, let's just wrap up in terms of stepping back and looking at big-picture. So,
you've kind of set a decent growth target out there in terms of earnings growth. Maybe just go ahead, kind
of refresh what your targets are here in terms of long-term growth on earnings power, just given --

Page295of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.obviously we'll have stairsteps in Australia. You've got good project development in the US growth. You've
got acquisitions built in. You've got some pricing just from the rails and inflation, plus -- just set the stage for
overall--.

TIMOTHY GALLAGHER: --Sure. Our long-term goal is to see increased earnings at between 15% and
20% per year. We came into the year believing that we would have about 20% growth in pretax earnings
this year. First quarter kind of changed our minds. So, if you exclude the acquisition of the DM&E,
including the winter, we're probably looking at something closer to 12% pretax growth, with the acquisition
about 15%. So, I guess if we hit the 15%, we're sort of in line with our long-term goal although less than
what we thought originally at the beginning of the year. But yes, it's that simple, and we've got a number of
levers from, as you said, pricing, acquisitions, organic growth, Australia. I couldn't tell you in any given year
which is going to be the biggest portion. It'll be more organic one year and acquisitions the next. But, we've
got many levers to pull

KEN HOEXTER: And I presume moving you toward even surpassing those targets are if any of these
contracts end up coming in a little bit faster, then you can jump up a little bit toward the upper end [there].

TIMOTHY GALLAGHER: Sure.

KEN HOEXTER: Okay. Any last questions? Otherwise, TJ, thank you very much, appreciate your thoughts
and insight. Thank you.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this
web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other
forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon
current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those
stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more
specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and
believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the
assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results
contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF
THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE
AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR
INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO
WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE
COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE
BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND
THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER
DECISIONS.]

CO genwi : Genesee & Wyoming Inc
IN itsp : Transportation/Shipping | i71 : Railroads | icargo : Freight/Cargo Transport | irailtr : Road/Rail

Transport | irfrght : Railroad Freight

NS c315 : Conferences/Exhibitions | ntra : Transcripts | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat
: Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter
| nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter

RE usa : United States | austr : Australia | saustr : South Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :

Australia/Oceania | namz : North America

PUB CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
AN Document FNDW000020140511ea5800234

Page296of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.