Kenshoo Expands Operations to China , Japan and Southeast Asia

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Kenshoo Expands Operations to China, Japan and Southeast Asia

514 words
5 May 2014
Entertainment Close-Up
ENTCUP
English
(c) 2014. Close-Up Media, Inc. All rights reserved.

Kenshoo, a provider of predictive media optimization technology, announced it was expanding its
operations and products across China, Japan, and Southeast Asia in order to meet demand for unified
search and social marketing technology.
Kenshoo said it is launching Chinese and Japanese language versions of its platform, enabling brands
and agencies in those markets to use custom versions of local search and social marketing tools through
phased rollouts. Kenshoo is also opening a new Singapore office, complementing locations in Hong
Kong, Tokyo, and Sydney, to enable deeper service for agencies and advertisers in the Asia Pacific
Japan region.

According to a release, further product enhancements to support China include making Kenshoo
ActiveCluster technology available for Baidu. Kenshoo has been integrated with Baidu since 2010 and
offers a variety of keyword bid optimization policies for local and international advertisers to capture
intent from Chinese consumers. Kenshoo also enables campaign management for Japan's largest
search engine, Yahoo! Japan.

Across APJ, Kenshoo client paid search spend rose 19 percent year-over-year in the first quarter of
2014 and client revenue jumped 34 percent. These findings were revealed in Kenshoo Global Search
Trends research covering more than three billion ads served into the region. Kenshoo also provides
advanced technology solutions for social networks like Facebook and Twitter and saw global social ad
spend rise 37 percent in Q1 as noted in the Kenshoo Search and Social Snapshot.
"We are seeing explosive growth in search and social advertising across Southeast Asia, China, and
Japan and Kenshoo is now expanding its operations faster than expected to meet this demand," said
Michel Van Woudenberg, Managing Director, APJ, at Kenshoo. "Local language platforms and deeper
in-market presence will give brands and agencies in this region even more horsepower to drive digital
marketing performance through Kenshoo. On top of these significant investments, we're going even
further to ensure client success by adding local resources in mainland China."

Kenshoo also noted that it recently hired former Facebook Japan and Australia executive, Liam Walsh,
to lead search and social sales across Southeast Asia with Singapore as the hub and focus on
Indonesia, Philippines, Malaysia, and Thailand. Kenshoo has recently secured alliances with brands and
agencies in APJ including Taipei Digital Advertising, Accuen Australia, Mindshare Malaysia, and ebay
Australia. The regional growth comes on the heels of Kenshoo's recent Series E fundraising led by Bain
Capital Ventures.

"Our strategy is to focus on providing the best digital marketing technology in the search and social
market, and helping advertisers more efficiently connect with their audiences," said Van Woudenberg.
"The next wave of digital marketing will focus on multi-touch attribution and cross-channel forecasting to
model out the complete web journey of a consumer across devices up until the time they make a
purchase. Kenshoo already delivers leading technology in these areas and we expect adoption to
spread rapidly across the region."

More information:

www.Kenshoo.com

www.dc-comms.com

Page53of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.((Comments on this story may be sent to newsdesk@closeupmedia.com))

CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

knshli : Kenshoo Ltd
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i330202 : Software | i3302021 : Applications Software | icomp :
Computing | itech : Technology
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c31 : Marketing | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin :
FC&E Industry News Filter
china : China | jap : Japan | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging
Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | nswals : New South Wales
Close-Up Media, Inc.
Document ENTCUP0020140505ea550003i

Page54of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.