Bernanke bows out after restoring confidence

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Finance
Bernanke bows out after restoring confidence

JOHN DURIE
1,401 words
28 January 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
1 - All-round Country
15
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

BEN Bernanke's last meeting as Fed chairman this week will see another $US10 billion ($11.5bn) cut
from its bonds subsidy program and put more pressure on emerging markets adjusting to a new era
for the US central bank.

Janet Yellen will take over from Bernanke after this meeting and, with congressional testimony due
next month, the Fed has not scheduled any media events to mark her formal ascendancy. Cutting US
bond subsidies to $US65bn a month, from $US85bn last year, is meant to drive more demand for the
US bond market and support for the US dollar, but after the early scares last year there is no evidence
of any major flood of funds into the US in recent weeks.

Bernanke, like many of his counterparts in other countries, presided over the GFC by failing to raise
rates in time, not anticipating the nightmare created by the subprime loans blowout in the US.

If he fell into the same trap as his predecessor at the start of his term, he has ended with the US on
the road to recovery.

Still, his successor Yellen faces the toughest task in successfully removing the monetary stimulus
without fracturing a tepid global recovery. On paper the quicker it is done the better.

Continued on Page 20

Continued from Page 15

Extreme liquidity creates distortions, as was seen so clearly pre-crisis and as may become evident
soon.

If global regulators think the shock of the GFC will magically reform banking and financial institutions,
then they are sadly mistaken because the evidence of any ethical shift is thin on the ground.

Bernanke has increased the accountability and transparency of the Fed and over his two terms has
undoubtedly done a good job at a time when other arms of government were impotent. He said at the
height of the crisis that the central problem was restoring investor confidence in financial institutions
and markets.

With the Dow Jones Industrial Average just 4 per cent below its December all-time high you could
argue he has done that. The present volatility should be expected. The VIX volatility index jumped
4.37 points to 18.14 on Friday, its highest level since last October.

After a strong run last year, both the US and Australian markets are obviously under pressure. On
UBS figures, the price-earnings multiple for the Australian market rose from 13.2 times this time last
year to 14.5 times this year, and the US move was bigger still.

Goldman Sachs, for one, started the year with a forecast 10 per cent slump in the market, marking an
official correction, and while arguing the market will finish the year in front, it will clearly be a struggle.

Page137of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.All this explains the increased nerves and volatility ahead of the local profit season, which starts in a
couple of weeks.

Today's NAB business confidence index will also be watched locally for any continued fall after the
temporary election bounce last year.

Power bid

NSW Treasurer Mike Baird can thank Rod Sims at the Australian Competition & Consumer
Commission for delaying its decision on the AGL bid for Macquarie Generation until next week, which
will at least ensure some competitive tension.

There are only two bidders left for the asset, which has a book value of $2bn but falling earnings and
less than stellar assets, which means a sale price well below this level.
Last year's earnings of $191 million fell $57m short of the projected $248m and, while the NSW
government has declined to update figures for this year, there must be some doubt over the forecast
$185m and the 2015 year forecast of $165m. Either way, the trend is clear and it is negative.
Brisbane-based ERM will receive the all-clear from Sims this week, but the regulator has delayed its
AGL decision until February 5, the same day the bids are due.

ERM argues a fourth player will add more depth and diversity to the market, pointing to the fact that
AGL (with Macquarie), Energy Australia and Origin control 49 per cent of national generation, 72 per
cent in NSW and 95 per cent of retail customers.

As AGL has next to no generation in NSW, it can also expect to get the all clear from the ACCC. On
paper, AGL should have no problem getting clearance. But then again, it has had a tortuous past with
the ACCC.

From Baird's stance, if the ACCC was to knock out AGL it is far better to do so later rather than sooner
given that ERM is the only bidder left standing.

Steel play

THIS week will also determine if BlueScope's Paul O'Malley is successful on part two of a three-part
campaign to recreate the old BHP steel as a virtual monopoly producer in Australia.
The ACCC has already approved the acquisition of Orrcon from Hills, but has raised doubt over the
second leg of the $87.5m Hills deal, the Fielders unit, which buys basic steel from BlueScope and rolls
it to make steel frames and the like.

Next month the ACCC will opine on the third leg of BlueScope's consolidation play when it considers
its proposal to buy the old OneSteel steel distribution arm.

BlueScope is a deft hand at anti-dumping complaints, which have proved a handy tool in reducing
import competition. It has landed in an odd position with its deal with a Finnish producer of quenched
and tempered steel.

A key customer, Bisalloy, which makes so-called Bisplate, high-strength light-weight steel, now has a
joint venture with Chinese-based Jinan Iron and Steel, which means it buys less from BlueScope.

The latter has also taken offence to imports from Japan and lodged a dumping complaint.

Big gamble

IN Melbourne, Chris Morris is a vocal opponent of poker machines in pubs so how does he explain last
week's decision to spend $70m buying Echo's Townsville casino?

In an interview yesterday, he confided: ``I have argued against poker machines in pubs because I
think they are places to go and catch up with friends and it's too tempting. When you go to a casino,
you go to gamble.''

That's a fair distinction. Now comes the tough bit -- trying to improve earnings at the venue that will
make a forecast $8.8m this year. Morris said: ``We know how to do food and beverage better and
that's where we will make the improvement.''

The Computershare founder has turned his hand to pubs big time with his Colonial Leisure group
running a string of pubs around the country including headline names like Print Hall in Perth, the

Page138of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Botanical in Melbourne and the iconic Portsea pub. Echo sold the casino to concentrate on its bigger
venues.

Audit rotation

THE self-serving nonsense from CPA boss Alex Malley, published in this paper yesterday, on
mandatory audit rotation should not be left untouched.

Malley fears the EU move to enforce mandatory rotation may result in the adoption of the rule in
Australia.

The big auditors have long argued against rotation, saying partner rotation ensures a fresh set of eyes
without causing undue disruption and bemoaned there are too few big firms capable of handling their
work.
One big company finance chief once confided he was happy to have E&Y audit his books because it
would take a new audit firm years to work out what he was up to, which is precisely the point.

Lend Lease put its audit out for tender last year after 55 years of KPMG on the job and not surprisingly
only one other firm tendered, and KPMG got the job again. But at least the company had a look and
opened its doors.

The push will come from offshore, not because ASIC follows the overseas fashion trends but because
Australian companies wanting to raise money offshore have to play by the local rules.

ASIC has been highly critical of local audit practices but chief Greg Medcraft has yet to follow through
on promises to adopt mandatory rotation, where after every seven years a company must change
audit firms. Just as when the big firms had to hive off insolvency arms, this change will be led from the
US and Europe and cannot come more quickly.

CO
NS
RE

PUB
AN

fed : Federal Reserve Board
gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North
America
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140127ea1s0001u

Page139of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.