(AEBGA) Bega Cheese branded UHT milk for China

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

(AEBGA) Bega Cheese branded UHT milk for China

392 words
19 September 2014
Ralph Wragg Australian Business News
AAPRAW
English
Copyright 2014 RWE AUSTRALIAN BUSINESS NEWS PTY LTD. All Rights Reserved.

Sydney - Friday - September 19 (RWE) - Bega Cheese Limited (ASX: BGA) today signed a supply and
distribution agreement with one of China's leading retail groups, Chongqing General Trading Group
(CGTG) whereby Bega will supply CGTG with Bega branded UHT milk produced in Australia for
distribution in China.
The agreement is expected to generate revenues of approximately $100 million dollars over five years.

Bega and CGTG see this as the basis for a broader commercial relationship in the future.
The Chongqing municipality in Southwest China is one of the fastest growing regions in China.
It has a population of 32 million people and GDP growth in 2013 of 12.3%.
CGTG is the leading retail group in the region, with a 50% retail market share across food and general
merchandise.

On hand in Chongqing from Bega for the formal singing were Barry Irvin - Executive Chairman, Aidan
Coleman - CEO and Paul van Heerwaarden - General Manager Sales and Marketing.
Mr Coleman said that "the company is very pleased to form this partnership with CGTG and it is a
strong endorsement of the reputation of the quality of Bega product and the bio security of Australia as a
dairy producing nation.

We see this as a first step in developing a comprehensive UHT offering in the future".
Dr He, Chairman of CGTG, said his company was excited to partner with an iconic Australian company
like Bega Cheese.
"China's consumption of milk and dairy products is increasing rapidly.

CGTG is delighted to work with Bega to satisfy that need".
The signing of the Chongqing agreement represents an expansion of Bega Cheese's products entering
the Chinese market.
The company has had a presence in the Chinese market for over 14 years, the Bega brand has been
sold in China since 2000 and Bega Cheese through its wholly owned subsidiary Tatura Milk Industries
has been a major Australian exporter of high value milk powder, infant formula and cream cheese to
the Chinese market.
Executive Chairman Barry Irvin commented "we are very proud of our long term business relationships
and we look forward to a long term relationship with CGTG.

We are confident our relationship will grow and that CGTG's many customers will be delighted with the
excellent quality and range of Bega products they are able to purchase".

CO
IN

becoop : Bega Cheese Ltd
i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i413 : Dairy Products | icnp :
Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products

Page244of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS
RE

PUB
AN

ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | china : China | chongp : Chongqing | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
RWE Australian Business News Pty Ltd
Document AAPRAW0020140919ea9j000xg

Page245of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.