Put more into Asia stocks: HSBC

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Put more into Asia stocks: HSBC

Sally Rose
856 words
23 May 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
21
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Australian equity managers are missing an opportunity on their doorstep and could improve returns by
allocating more money to Asia, argues HSBC co-head of Asian equities Michael Dillon.
His top picks include online businesses servicing the massive Chinese market, and regional food and
beverage makers catering to local tastes.

"Institutional investors in Australia need to lift their focus to the region and allocate more of their
portfolios to Asian equities," Mr Dillon said. "Asia's equity markets offer compelling value, particularly
among quality smaller companies and larger companies that pay high dividend yields." 
The Hong-Kong based, Australian- born portfolio manager made the comments during an interview
with The Australian Financial Review when he was in Sydney earlier this month, to spruik his message
that local superannuation fund managers should allocate more money to Asian equities.

As a region, Asian markets are more resilient, with stronger growth than other emerging market
regions, he argues. HSBC has forecast economic growth – as measured by gross domestic product for
Asia (excluding Japan) – to slow moderately to about 7 per cent in 2014, as slower growth in China is
offset by faster growth in other markets such as Indonesia and India.
"Asia-wide equity markets look cheap, with the average price-to-book ratio for Asian-listed companies
around 1.5 times, compared to a global average of 1.8 times," Mr Dillon said.

An even more encouraging sign is that Asian-listed companies are also delivering higher average
returns on invested capital than the global average, a key indicator they are well managed, he said.
Asia ROE higher than global average
"The blended global average return on equity for listed companies is sitting just under 12 per cent, with
the average higher in the United States and lower in Europe. In Asia, the average ROE is just over 12.5
per cent, but Asian companies also have access to growth markets." 

"Compounding rates of return on capital is probably the most reliable indicator of how resilient a growth
company will be," Mr Dillon said. "Of course, along with how efficiently capital is deployed, it is also
important that the cost of capital is not too high." 

In deploying HSBC's Asian large cap high dividend strategy, Mr Dillon is now finding the best value
opportunities in the information technology and consumer discretionary sectors. Accessing good-quality
technology and consumer discretionary stocks in Asia has the added benefit for Australian investors of
providing diversification from the miners and banks that dominate the local market, he said.

Of the Asian technology companies in the portfolio, there is a slant towards Indian software providers,
Korean semiconductor makers and Chinese online business. "HSBC picks stocks from the bottom up
but there are some definite trends for different Asian countries to specialise particularly well in different
areas of technology," Mr Dillon said.

Page113of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Many global investors have had their interest in Chinese online companies stoked by the slated United
States listing of China's $US120 billion e-commerce behemoth, Alibaba, in August, a deal that is
expected to be the biggest technology IPO ever. "Disruptive online business models are taking market
share from traditional industries around the world, but those sorts of businesses operating in China
have the advantage of selling into an online customer base of nearly 700 million internet users, and
that makes for a very attractive investment proposition," Mr Dillon said. Invest in smaller companies

Many investors think the safest way to tap the growing consumer goods market in Asia is by buying big
multi-national companies, but this a mistake he said.

"The . . . companies doing really well in Asia, particularly in food and beverages, are the local players
that understand the understand local tastes. 
"There has been a lot of talk about the growing Asian thirst for imported milk, but something that is less
well understood is how Asian-based companies are winning market share by developing flavours
attuned to local palates international brands would never dream of," he said.

It makes sense for Australian investors to turn to Asia to find smaller companies to invest in because it
provides better choice, diversity and there is more quality available, he said.

"Asian small caps are a really under-appreciated asset class. It takes a lot of research to find them, but
there are plenty of genuinely good listed businesses around Asia with a market capitalisation between
$US250 million ($271 million) and $US2 billion."

"HSBC's analysts cover more than 7000 Asian companies with a market capitalisation of less than
$US2 billion and about one-third of those don't have any other official coverage," he said.

One sector where Mr Dillon has invested in a few smaller Asian companies is textile manufacturing.
"The Asian textile industry is a very interesting area. Lots of the larger players have fallen over so
sentiment towards the sector is terrible, but there are a number of smaller textiles firms that have
proprietary patents or technology that will allow them to keep international contracts with apparel
brands such as Nike, Puma and Adidas." 

CO
IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

hksbc : HSBC Holdings PLC
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
e1101 : Economic Growth | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators |
ecat : Economic News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140522ea5n00035

Page114of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.