Weekly news through Nov. 21

The Week in Asian Real Estate; Exclusive

SE
HD Weekly news through Nov. 21
BY Megan Zhao
WC 1,004 words
PD
SN
SC
VOL Issue: 83139
LA
CY
LP

English
Copyright 2014. SNL Financial LC

25 November 2014
SNL Real Estate Daily: Asia-Pacific Edition
REAP

Deal of the week
Blackstone Group LP, the world's largest private equity property investor, is beefing up its Japan
apartment holdings through a deal worth more than ¥190 billion, or approximately $1.62 billion.

TD

The biggest U.S. single-family rental-home landlord agreed to buy GE Japan Corp.'s wholly owned
residential property business, which owns and operates more than 200 residential properties,
consisting of over 10,000 units, primarily in Tokyo, Osaka, Nagoya and Fukuoka.
Alan Miyasaki, senior managing director at Blackstone, said in a news release that the group continues to
believe strongly in the residential sector's fundamentals, especially in Japan's major cities.
Blackstone's latest deal is the largest property acquisition this year in Japan, dwarfing Singapore's
sovereign wealth fund GIC's Tokyo office tower purchase for an estimated ¥170 billion.
M&A activity

WHA Corp. Pcl, Thailand's biggest publicly traded developer of factories and warehouses, plans to pay
43.7 billion Thai baht for Hemaraj Land and Development Pcl, a move that will enable the company to
expand into land development in Thailand from being a logistics and industrial developer.
CEO Somyos Anantaprayoon was quoted by The Bangkok Post as saying that the acquisition will
increase the market capitalization of WHA, which is also seeking to raise up to 5 billion baht via a REIT
IPO in early December, to 79 billion baht from 36 billion baht.
The merger, advised by Siam Commercial Bank, is scheduled to be completed by March 2015. The offer
price of 4.50 baht per share for 22.53% of Hemaraj shares is 1.4% higher than the stock's closing price of
4.44 baht on Nov. 14.

The management structure within Hemaraj will not change, David Nardone, president and CEO of
Hemaraj, was quoted as saying.

Partnering up
* Lippo Group joined forces with the Toyota Motorgroup and other Japanese companies to develop a
"Little Tokyo" on the outskirts of Jakarta, catering to the growing number of Japanese residents, according
to the Nikkei Asian Review. The project, with total costs estimated at $30 million, will feature
Japanese-style housing, kindergartens and commercial facilities.
* Also in Jakarta, CapitaLand Ltd. teamed up with a Credo Group subsidiary for its first Indonesian
project. The S$220 million development comprises a grade-A office tower, residential units, serviced
residences and retail space with gross floor area of more than 40,000 square meters. Construction is
expected to start in 2015 with completion scheduled in 2018.

* In its bid to expand in Southeast Asia, Philippines-based Ayala Land Inc. is venturing into Myanmar's
booming property market, Asia News Network reported. The company is partnering with local retailer
City Mart Holdings, which operates multiple retail formats in the country.

Page17of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Australian capital abroad

* QSuper, Australia's second-biggest superannuation fund, confirmed that it acquired The Bridges
Shopping Centre in Sunderland, northern England for about £150 million. Land Securities Group Plcsold
the 55,000-square-meter center in July. The confirmation came as superfunds in Australia continue to
scout for acquisition opportunities abroad due to heated competition from foreign capital and fewer
investable assets in the home country.
* Australian heavyweight Goodman Group is placing bets on China. The logistics developer, along with
Canada Pension Plan Investment Board, will invest a further $500 million to expand its portfolio of
warehouses across China, making their joint venture one of Australia's largest direct investors in the
country. The Canadian partner will commit $400 million of the new money and Goodman the remaining
$100 million. This will take their total investment in Goodman China Logistics Holding beyond $2 billion.
Philip Pearce, Goodman's managing director of Greater China, expects the company to increase its
assets in China by 50% to $3 billion over the next three years.

At its annual general meeting, Goodman reaffirmed its full-year 2015 operating EPS guidance of 36.9
cents, up 6% on last year.

Other news
* Global Logistic Properties Ltd. said Jeffrey Schwartz, the company's co-founder and chairman of the
executive committee, died Nov. 19. Schwartz, 55, also was a board member of Las Vegas Sands Corp.
and former CEO of Prologis Inc.
* With new-home prices continuing to drop in China, property giant Greenland Holding Group Co. is said
to have turned its focus to the Gold Coast in Queensland, Australia, for "mostly" residential and hotel
development as demand in China slows and Sydney and Melbourne prices become too expensive,
Bloomberg News reported, citing Sherwood Luo, managing director of the company's Sydney-based
subsidiary.
Greenland, the most aggressive Chinese developer abroad in recent years, will also diversify its
investment. Following the signing of the free trade agreement between the two countries, the group is
looking to buy Australian food and agriculture companies for imports into China.

Now featured on SNL

The Eastern Front: Grass is greener for mainland firms bent on diversification: Shanghai-based Greenland
Holding Group has set its sights on the Australian food and agriculture sector in the latest sign that
Chinese developers are feeling the need to diversify their holdings.
The Eastern Front: Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect opens doors for office market: China's latest bid
to open up its financial markets is expected to boost the office market in Hong Kong, according to
industry observers.

IPO Monitor for the week ending Nov. 19: Stories for the week come from the U.K., Singapore, Thailand,
Saudi Arabia, Italy and Morocco.
Asian property transactions to Nov. 21: A Charter Hall Group fund is selling a Sydney office asset;
CapitaLand strikes a S$220 million joint venture for an Indonesian project; and DEXUS Property Group
completes the sale of a New Zealand asset.
Hires and Fires: European, Asian real estate moves through Nov. 17: SNL Financial presents a weekly
rundown of recent significant management and board changes and personnel moves in the European
and Asia-Pacific real estate industries.

CO blgrou : The Blackstone Group LP
IN

NS

RE

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150203
: Private Equity | ialtinv : Alternative Investments | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News
Filter
jap : Japan | thail : Thailand | austr : Australia | indon : Indonesia | tokyo : Tokyo | apacz : Asia Pacific |
asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | seasiaz : Southeast Asia

Page18of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IPD Deal Update/Other
PUB SNL Financial LC
AN

Document REAP000020141128eabp00003

Page19of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.