Devine rises as takeover looms

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Devine rises as takeover looms

EXCLUSIVE: BRIDGET CARTER, DEALS
454 words
15 July 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
24
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Queensland-based residential developer Devine has hired investment bank Goldman Sachs as its
adviser after attracting interest for a full-scale takeover of the company rather than a trade sale of the
50 per cent stake owned by Leighton Holdings.
Devine could make an announcement this week revealing that it will handle the process for a sale of
the entire business, rather than Leighton selling just its holding. The sale has been triggered by the
break-up of Leighton Holdings, announced by its Spanish-controlled owner Hochtief, which this year
tightened its grip on Leighton, taking its stake to 75 per cent.

The assets for sale across Leighton’s overall business include subsidiary John Holland, Leighton
Properties and stakes in a portfolio of companies, including Devine, mining contractor Macmahon
Holdings and infrastructure provider Sedgman.

Potential bidders are expecting to receive marketing material this week for Devine, under the
guidance of Goldman Sachs.

The latest development comes after The Australian revealed on Saturday that Japanese groups and
locally listed rival AVJennings have shown interest in Devine as part of the Leighton sell-off. Sources
said last week the parties, thought to include Sekisui House, had been investigating a potential
purchase of the developer, which has a market capitalisation of more than $160 million and a $3
billion pipeline.

Devine’s shares rallied by at least 3 per cent yesterday following the reports, closing at $1.055, up
3.5c.

Last month, it confirmed Leighton had launched an expressions of interest process for its stake.
Leighton has been running a process for its Devine stake via its bankers including Macquarie Capital
and Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Bank of America is specifically handling the sale of Leighton
Properties, while Macquarie is handling other assets.
Groups out of Singapore, China and Malaysia are expected to show interest in Leighton Properties,
with the chance to gain access to an executive team with Australian property development expertise.

Sydney’s Green Square Town Centre joint venture mixed-use project, which has an end value of
$1.1bn, is thought to be the most valuable asset. French giant Bouygues is believed to be showing
strong interest for John Holland.

In a research note, Commonwealth Bank analyst Ben Brownette said an acquisition by Bouygues
would enable the French giant to bid for upcoming Australian projects without drafting in partners
such as Lend Lease and Asciano. Bouygues had launched expressions of interest on close to $1bn of
NSW government road projects such as the East West Link, North Connex and WestConnex.

Mr Brownette believed John Holland could command a price of $1bn to $1.36bn.Shares in Leighton
closed up 21c to $31.

Page54of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CO

IN
NS
RE
PUB
AN

hocht : Hochtief AG | leiho : Leighton Holdings Ltd | mcmhn : MacMahon Holdings Ltd | ocisa : ACS
Actividades de Construcciones y Servicios SA
i502 : Heavy Construction | iconst : Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140714ea7f0003s

Page55of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.