Asia Transfer Window: recent moves including Ropes & Gray, Simmons and Hogan Lovells

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY

LP

TD

Asia Transfer Window: recent moves including Ropes & Gray, Simmons and Hogan Lovells

863 words
19 September 2014
Legal Week News
LGNW
English
© 2014 Incisive Media Investments Limited, published by Incisive Financial Publishing Limited,
Haymarket House, 28-29 Haymarket, London SW1Y 4RX, are companies registered in England and
Wales with company registration numbers 04252091 & 04252093

Ropes & Gray has ramped up its investigations team in Asia, with the hire of US federal prosecutor
Patrick Sinclair as a partner in its government enforcement group.

The Asia Transfer Window is a regular round-up of recent legal moves in Asia Pacific. Please send all
announcements to: elizabeth.broomhall@legalweek.com

Ropes & Gray has ramped up its investigations team in Asia, with the hire of US federal prosecutor
Patrick Sinclair as a partner in its government enforcement group.
The Boston firm, which is representing GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) on its bribery investigation, is among a
string of outfits trying to increase capability in this practice as regional investigations of global
companies and banks continue to surge.

It claims to have handled more than 320 corruption cases in Asia over the past five years.

Sinclair most recently worked as the deputy chief of general crimes in the US Attorney's Office for the
Eastern District of New York, and has joined R&G in the city with a view to relocating to Hong Kong
early next year. He was previously an associate with Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom.

Paul Hastings has meanwhile lost Tokyo finance partner Joseph Kim to Hogan Lovells.
Kim has joined the firm as a partner in the infrastructure, energy, resources and projects team, and is
expected to help boost its Japan and Korea outbound investment offering.

His focus is on power projects, upstream and midstream natural resource projects and renewable
energy projects. He has strong contacts with global clients such as Standard Chartered Bank,
Marubeni, K-Exim and K-Sure.

In Singapore, Stephenson Harwood's alliance partner Virtus Law has strengthened its corporate
practice with the addition of Douglas Koh from local outfit Colin Ng & Partners.
Koh specialises in equity capital markets and M&A in Asia, with a particular focus on China.

Also in the city-state, Norton Rose Fulbright has brought on board technology and innovation partner
Stella Cramer from Standard Chartered, where she was head of group legal and compliance.

She has been based in Singapore for the last four years, firstly at ANZ Banking Group, and most
recently at Standard Chartered Bank.
In China this month, Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer lawyer Ethan Jin has moved to US firmWilson
Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati, joining as a partner in Beijing.
Jin focuses on China capital markets and M&A work, and is important hire for the firm which has long
been seeking to add to its Beijing offering.

Meanwhile in Beijing, Rouse partner George Chan has moved across to Simmons & Simmons to launch
a specialist trade mark practice for the firm in China.

Page231of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.An IP lawyer, Chan has particular experience in the regulatory approval requirements for drugs, trade
secrets protection, trade mark and patent prosecution; as well as the negotiation and drafting of IP
agreements, IP enforcement and domain name dispute resolution.
Down under Australian firm HWL Ebsworth has recently added to its restructuring and insolvency team
in Brisbane with the hire of Matthew Broderick from Gadens in Queensland.

Broderick has spent more than 18 years' covering all stages of restructuring and insolvency, including
banking litigation and securities enforcement, receivership, liquidator's recovery actions, bankruptcy,
voluntary administration and taxation recoveries.

His appointment brings the practice to twenty partners.
The Brisbane office of K&L Gates has meanwhile recruited Robert Milbourne as a partner in its energy,
infrastructure and resources practice area from Norton Rose Fulbright.
Milbourne's practice concentrates on corporate transactions in the mining and resources sector,
advising clients on corporate governance, exploration, project development, and M&A, with a particular
focus on political risk insurance matters.

Boosting its corporate team in Perth this month is Squire Patton Boggs, which has appointed partner
Simon Rear and a team of lawyers from Allion Legal.
Rear works mainly on M&A and capital markets deals, and previously spent four years with Herbert
Smith. He focuses predominantly on hard rock resources and mining, alongsde technology, insurance,
finance and property.

Joining with Rear are senior associate Chris Rosario and associates Ben Stewart and Pasan
Wijesuriya.

On the IP side, Clayton Utz has taken on Gilbert + Tobin partner Ken Saurajen to boost its IP and
technology practice.

Saurajen has practised for 10 years, including time spent in-house as a corporate counsel with ninemsn
and SingTel Optus.

He specialises in large-scale and complex IT procurements, outsourcing and transformation projects,
software and technology licensing, electronic payment systems and telecommunications.
Two magic circle partners have also joined Baker & McKenzie in Hong Kong recently.

Rowan McKenzie has moved across from Linklaters where he served as head of the employment and
incentives practice in Asia, while Stephen Crosswell, a competition lawyer, has also come on board
from Clifford Chance - previously head of antitrust and competition in Hong Kong.

Joining McKenzie is employment senior associate Catherine Leung from Howse Williams Bowers.
Computer says...yes? Is your firm's technology making your work life easier? Tell us for chance to win
an iPad Air: Click here

To view photo, click here.

CO
IN

RE

PUB
AN

hoha : Hogan Lovells | ropgry : Ropes & Gray LLP
irenewf : Renewable Energy Facility Construction | i502 : Heavy Construction | i5020044 : Power
Station Construction | iconst : Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction | i835 : Legal Services | ibcs
: Business/Consumer Services
china : China | austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | beijin : Beijing | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | queensl : Queensland
Incisive Financial Publishing Ltd
Document LGNW000020140919ea9j00003

Page232of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.