Stakes rise for Jupiters

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Stakes rise for Jupiters

LIAM WALSH
335 words
24 January 2014
The Gold Coast Bulletin
GCBULL
GoldCoast
59
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

A NEW player in the local casino market could emerge as the owner of Townsville’s gaming venue next
week.

Echo Entertainment late last year revealed it was aiming to sell its Jupiters Townsville casino, with a
possible $75 million price tag, so it could focus on its casinos on the Gold Coast and in Brisbane.

Echo plans to pump $1.5 billion into the redevelopment of Jupiters casino at Broadbeach and the
transformation of the Treasury casino in Brisbane.

Sources with knowledge of the Townsville transaction yesterday confirmed reports a deal could be
sealed next week for about $70 million.

The potential buyer was rumoured to be a domestic entity with an understanding of high-end tourism
but not an existing casino operator.

Other sources said other potential buyers could include New Zealand’s SkyCity, which has Adelaide
and Darwin casinos, Singapore-listed Lasseters International, with an Alice Springs casino, or interests
linked to Hong Kong tycoon Tony Fung, who is behind a move on Cairns’ casino.

Echo yesterday declined to comment.

But in November, Echo chief executive John Redmond said the “the size and breadth of appeal of the
Townsville market means more limited opportunity for the creation of a large-scale integrated resort”.
Echo has been focusing on Brisbane and Gold Coast markets.

Mr Redmond said Townsville had posted a “positive performance” but trends had been tough. Echo’s
latest results bunched Jupiters Gold Coast and Townsville operations, showing earnings for the two
had fallen from $59.2 million in 2012 to $25.5 million in 2013.
Jupiters Gold Coast is understood to account for a large chunk of earnings. Dr Sudhir Kale, of
GamePlan Consultants and Bond University’s business faculty, said Townsville was constrained by its
market potential.It did not have substantial food and beverage earnings, nor VIP gaming, plus it was
known as attracting “the grind market” where people bet in smaller sums. It would be a “gamble”
purchase, he said.

IN
NS
RE

PUB

i97912 : Gambling Industries | ilea : Leisure/Arts/Hospitality
gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.

Page250of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AN

Document GCBULL0020140124ea1o00056

Page251of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.