Movers & shakers: Dec. 10, 2014

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Movers & shakers: Dec. 10, 2014

Compiled by Baz Hiralal
970 words
9 December 2014
The Deal
DEALNEW
English
Copyright 2014. The Deal LLC.

In Hong Kong, brokerage and investment firmCLSA Ltd. appointed Andrew Low as head of international
investment banking. He will report to CLSA chairman and CEO and Citic Securities International co-CEO
Jonathan Slone and will join CLSA's executive committee.
Low comes in from RedBridge Grant Samuel, a boutique corporate finance firm he established in 2011.
Before that, he was chief operating officer of Macquarie Capital Advisers and chaired the global operating
committee. As Macquarie Capital's head of Asia from 2004 to 2010, he led the deal team for the
acquisition of ING Securities. He was also global head of Macquarie's telecom, media, entertainment
and technology group from 2001 to 2007, was a co-head of Macquarie's global financial institutions group
and the inaugural vice chairman of the Sino-Australian Trust Co. in Shanghai. Low is a member of the
Australian Takeovers Panel and deputy chairman of the Asia Society in Australia.

Citic Securities acquired CLSA from Crédit Agricole SA for $1.25 billion last year.

Messaging app Snapchat Inc. hired Imran Khan from Credit Suisse Group as chief strategy officer,
reporting to co-founder and CEO Evan Spiegel. Snapchat allows you to send pictures, texts, drawings
and videos with a pre-determined shelf life, eradicating the media from servers after time is up (of course,
you can always take a screenshot). The revenue-less startup was recently valued at $10 billion, following
2014's swelling valuations of companies like Uber and AirBnB. Facebook Inc., which bought WhatsApp
for $19 billion in February, reportedly offered $3 billion for Snapchat late last year. The
multi-billion-dollar valuation came from an unconfirmed $20 million investment from Kleiner Perkins
Caufield & Byers in August. Among its rounds, it raised a $50 million Series C from Coatue Management
in December 2013 and Chinese Internet giant Tencent led an $80 million Series B, with investors
including SV Angel, Lightspeed Venture Partners, Benchmark, General Catalyst Partners and Institutional
Venture Partners.

Snapchat is no doubt bringing in the respected technology banker to start monetizing its business and
perhaps set up for an initial public offering. Khan was a managing director and head of global Internet
investment banking at Credit Suisse, where he led the team covering the massive Alibaba Group Holding
Ltd. IPO. He also worked with Alibaba Group on the repurchase of 20% stake back from Yahoo! Inc. for
$7.6 billion in 2012; on the sale of Toudu to Youku and with Warburg Pincus LLC on the acquisition of
Endurance International Group. Khan led Alibaba Group's $8 billion private financing, which is the largest
non-LBO financing for a technology company in history. Additionally, Khan led the IPO process for
Groupon, Bazaarvoice, Taome and Toudu. Before joining CS as a banker in 2011, he was with JPMorgan
Chase & Co. since 2004, including as head of global Internet research. He also spent three years at
Fulcrum Global Partners LLC.

While ads are the first things that come to mind, in November, the 3-year-old Venice Calif.-based
company introduced Snapcash in partnership with payments startup Square, giving a person who is at
least 18 and holder of a debit card the ability to send money to friends. The money shouldn't disappear,
though.
Corporate and merger and acquisition practitioner Olivier Diaz joined Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher &
Flom LLP as a partner in France. The former Darrois Villey Maillot Brochier partner worked on
Sanofi-Synthélabo SA's €54.5 billion ($75.4 billion) hostile deal for Aventis SA and, more recently,
represented Publicis Groupe SA in its attempted $35.1 billion merger with Omnicom Group Inc.

Page252of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Commonfund, an investment manager for not-for-profit investors, named JPMorgan Chase & Co.'s
Catherine M. Keating as CEO. She will start in early 2015 and was head of investment management,
Americas for JPM since July 2011. Keating will succeed Verne Sedlacek, Commonfund CEO since 2002,
who will remain with the firm in an advisory capacity.

Keating had also been co-chairwoman of the fiduciary risk committee, director of the JPMorgan Chase
Foundation, and executive sponsor of the firm's Women's Interactive Network. Prior to joining JPMorgan
in 1996, Keating was a partner at Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP.

UBS hired commodities analyst Lachlan Shaw for its research team in Australia. Shaw was a senior
commodity analyst, Commonwealth Bank of Australia, where he led mining and energy commodity
research. Prior to seven years at CBA, Shaw spent six at the Australian Treasury as an economist. He
also held roles in equities research and equity capital markets for HSBC Securities and ECM Ltd. in
Sydney.

Carrick Capital Partners LLC, focused on software and technology-enabled services firms, tapped Bill
Frist as a special adviser. Frist is a heart and lung transplant surgeon, former U. S. Senate Majority
Leader, and chairman of the executive board of the health service private equity firmCressey & Co. Frist
represented Tennessee in the U.S. Senate for 12 years where he served on both the health and finance
committees.
McGlinchey Stafford PLLC added Brian Paino to its Irvine, Calif., office as of counsel in the firm's
financial services litigation/class action defense group. Prior to a stint with Albertelli Law, he was with Pite
Duncan LLP in San Diego for six years.

Clippings from the next column:

-- Rohit Singh, consumer products and retail, joins UBS from JPMorgan Chase & Co. Also, Martin
Henrichs is joining UBS as head of EMEA healthcare.

-- Greenhill & Co. takes on Tammo Buennemeyer as a principal.

-- RBC Global Asset Management names Damon Williams and Alex Khein as co-CEOs.

-- ING Investment Management hires Tarek Saber and Jasper van Ingen.

-- Houlihan Lokey Inc. enlists Richard Lee for financial advisory services.

CO

IN

NS

RE

crdtag : Credit Agricole SA | mcqbnk : Macquarie Group Limited | asisqc : Asia Society | clslm : CLSA
Limited | citic : CITIC Group | citich : Citic Securities Company Limited
i831 : Financial Investments | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities |
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | i83101 : Investment Banking | i83102 : Security
Brokering/Dealing
c411 : Management Moves | cacqu : Acquisitions | cslmc : Senior Level Management | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | c41 :
Management | cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : C&E
Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | namz : North America | usa : United States | usca : California | apacz : Asia Pacific |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | usw : Western U.S.
Article

IPD
PUB The Deal, LLC
AN

Document DEALNEW020141216eac90000w

Page253of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.