Corporate: Cover Story - From zero to hero

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Corporate: Cover Story - From zero to hero

By Cindy Yeap
3,377 words
7 April 2014
The Edge Malaysia (Weekly)
EDGEWK
English
© Copyright 2014. The Edge Communications Sdn Bhd. All rights reserved.

After the dotcom bust in 2000/01, the then twentysomething Patrick Grove was the only one of the four
Catcha.com boys who stuck around to rebuild the company that had started out as Southeast Asia’s
Yahoo! search portal in 1999. Fourteen years on, his patience and, more importantly, his faith in the
digital economy are paying off well enough for him to commit US$150 million to buying other Asean
online businesses the next five years.

Today, the collective value of Catcha Group’s digital media assets is over RM3 billion — double the
market capitalisation of traditional media giants like Star Publications (M) Bhd, which, incidentally, has a
4.9% stake in one of the group’s smaller subsidiaries — Catcha Media Bhd — which is listed on Bursa
Malaysia. In fact, the largest of Catcha Group’s four public-listed units — Australia-listed property portal
iProperty Group Ltd — was slightly bigger than Star’s RM1.74 billion market cap at the time of writing,
although the owner of Malaysia’s largest circulated English daily was 27 times more profitable last year.

“Every developer in Malaysia is our client. Most of our clients think we are a small little website that they
advertise on, but iProperty is a RM1.76 billion company [at its A$3.20 close on April 2, 2014]. We’re
bigger than many of our clients,” says Grove of the Australian Securities Exchange-listed iProperty, which
on March 21 was added to the S&P/ASX 300 Index that lists Australia’s top 300 stocks by market cap.
To illustrate, iProperty’s market cap was quarter S P Setia Bhd’s, 2.3 times YNH Property Bhd’s and
almost the same as Tropicana Corp Bhd’s, which last year made 68 times more profit than the company
that runs several real estate portals in Asia. 

To be sure, much of iProperty’s market cap growth happened in the past two months. The stock, which
hit an all-time high of A$4.04 intraday on March 21, was hovering below A$2 in mid-January and only
fetched 71 Australian cents in late May 2013. Three years ago, the stock was around 50 cents. Part of its
recent gains might have been spurred by iProperty making its first net profit of A$1.7 million in financial
year 2013, thanks to a A$5 million gain from selling its investment in ASX-listed iCar Asia last October.

Sentiments could also have been buoyed by the lavish love affair investors were having with technology
stocks as deep-pocketed technology giants like social media outfit Facebook Inc spent seemingly
ludicrous amounts on buying up unprofitable but promising start-ups with strong user following to win the
world’s attention, such as US$19 billion for free messaging service WhatsApp and US$1 billion for
photo-sharing app Instagram.

While more investors are questioning the sustainability of tech stocks “beyond lofty” valuations after being
slapped by the poor initial public offering debut of the US$7.6 billion “Candy Crush Saga” smartphone
game-maker King Digital Entertainment plc on March 26, others point out that Google’s two-for-one stock
split last week gives the owner of the world’s largest search engine ammunition to make big acquisitions
using its shares without threatening its founder’s control over the company.

For the record, Google — the world’s third largest listed stock by market cap after gadget-maker Apple
Inc and oil major ExxonMobil Corp — made a profit of US$12.92 billion in FY2013, nine times
Facebook’s US$1.49 billion. The open rivalry among the tech fiefs — from Google vs Facebook and
Apple vs Samsung Electronics Co to Alibaba vs Tencent vs Baidu for dominion over China’s Internet
market — may also boost acquisitions to expand and defend one’s turf, experts say. Chinese
e-commerce behemoth Alibaba.com, which in the past year alone spent US$3 billion on a string of

Page210of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.purchases, would have more cash following its planned mega New York IPO that is expected to value it
between US$100 billion and US$250 billion.

Grove, whose Catcha.com in 1999 to 2001 had “a simple content deal” with Alibaba and was recently
offered a pre-IPO stake in the latter, reckons that the current second wave of the technology boom would
be much bigger and stronger than the dotcom boom in the late 1990s. After all, Facebook only started in
2004 and the iPhone was unveiled in 2007.

“The Facebook IPO in 2012 was probably the beginning of the second wave. The average child knows
Facebook is huge, but the average adult probably didn’t really realise that Facebook was a US$170
billion company that was bigger than any listed company in Malaysia … when it IPO-ed, people reading
the financial press realised that the website their child spent the whole day on was not some small chat
room, but one of the top 30 listed companies in the world. The financial community started to realise that
these were not just cute little side businesses, but serious business,” Grove says, adding that the hugely
successful Twitter IPO in 2013 and acquisitions by the global Internet giants further spurred deals.

“Google [started in September 1998] was not profitable back [during the first wave]. Today, it is among
the largest companies in the world [with a US$380 billion market cap].”

 

Southeast Asia’s Silicon Valley
Apart from Grove, Mark Chang — the founder of another Malaysian Internet companyJobStreet Corp
Bhd — is also a success story and among the reasons the former calls Malaysia “the Silicon Valley of
Southeast Asia”.

“No one has claimed it, but some of the biggest listed Internet companies in Southeast Asia are actually
in Malaysia,” declares Grove, who turns 39 on April 30.

“Singapore, as a country and government, is very aggressive in trying to be a Silicon Valley but it has not
created any Internet company worth over RM1 billion. Malaysia has created three: iProperty.com,
JobStreet.com and MyEG Services. There are eight publicly traded Internet companies in Southeast Asia
and six of them are Malaysian,” adds Grove, who survived the 2001 dotcom bust and saw Catcha lose
“lots of money” for seven years before turning around.

Founded in 1999 by Grove, Kensuke Tsurumaru, Nic Lim and John Wong, Catcha.com “became a
household name in Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia and the Philippines and came close to listing on the
Singapore Exchange”. But plans to raise S$55 million from the IPO were shelved after Nasdaq crashed
in 2000 and a decision was made to diversify and move into print publishing.

“We knew it was only a matter of time before we got back into the online game, and in 2006, we began to
make significant investments in online companies in the creation of iProperty Group, which went on to list
on the ASX in 2007. We’ve been on a roll ever since,” says Grove, who now owns Catcha Group Pte Ltd
with Lucas Robert Elliot following the exit of his fellow founding partners. “Nic and John moved on over 10
years ago and Ken about 1.5 years ago.”
Like iProperty, JobStreet was worth half its RM1.6 billion market value today just a year ago and fetched
one-sixth of its value today five years back. Much of its recent gains came after Australia’s biggest online
employment siteSeek Ltd agreed to pay RM1.73 billion (US$524 million) for the online job portal
business of Malaysia’s JobStreet Corp on Feb 19 — a deal that valued JobStreet at 31 times 2013
earnings and the same size as Star, whose RM143 million net profit in FY2013 was 2.4 times
JobStreet’s RM59 million in the same year.
Also on Feb 19, Sultan of Johor Sultan Ibrahim Ismail paid US$120 million for 15% of Malaysian online
payment firmMOL Global Pte Ltd in a deal that valued it at US$800 million. That is about the size of
Malaysian Resources Corp Bhd, CapitaMalls Malaysia Trust and Media Prima Bhd, whose market cap
stood at US$827.7 million, US$814.3 million and US$789.6 million respectively at the time of writing.
Incidentally, Nasdaq-listed Facebook’s US$19 billion purchase of WhatsApp for nearly four times the
social network company’s US$5.09 billion revenue last year and 950 times the latter’s revenue of
US$20 million happened on the same day the JobStreet and MOL deals were announced.

Only three of the 928 Bursa Malaysia-listed companies had a market cap that was larger than
WhatsApp’s hotly debated super-high US$19 billion price tag. WhatsApp is three times the size of
Telekom Malaysia Bhd and the size of DiGi.Com Bhd and Telekom combined. Even Malaysia’s three
biggest listed companies — Malayan Banking Bhd (US$26.2 billion), Public Bank Bhd (US$20.9 billion)

Page211of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.and Tenaga Nasional Bhd (US$20.4 billion) — had a smaller market cap than Twitter Inc’s US$26.6
billion.
True value or fool’s gold?

Does the availability of deep-pocketed buyers like Facebook mean investors should rethink the way
Internet companies are valued? Or is the crushed “Candy Crush” IPO the beginning of the end?

“People who don’t know the Internet world see these numbers and think it is a bubble. I don’t see this as
a bubble because at the end of the day, you ignore the valuation and the share price and look at the
fundamentals of the business. And you see that these businesses are growing really fast,” Grove says.

“Something like iProperty is growing between 30% and 100% year on year [in terms of revenue and
users] … so people can basically predict that five years from now the company is going to make more
money than [a company that’s profitable today but is not growing anymore] and they’re basically
investing for the future.”

He adds that the growth potential for Internet companies is huge once scale is attained because costs
stay largely the same while any additional user above the cost breakeven point is pure profit.
“If [a newspaper company] triples its readership, it will have to print more and cost goes up whereas for
iProperty, if we triple users, we triple revenue but our cost stays the same. It doesn’t cost much to host a
website.”
It remains to be seen if iProperty, which saw revenue grow 23% to A$19.05 million last year but might
not have been profitable without a one-time investment sale gain, can continue to stay profitable this
year. According to ASX filings, iProperty is profitable in Malaysia, but still loss-making in Singapore, Hong
Kong and Indonesia. Last year, Ebitda for the Malaysian business rose 48% year on year to A$5.2
million on a 23% rise in revenue to A$11.8 million — still very small relative to a bricks-and-mortar
property developer.

The winner takes it all

Grove admits that it might be a challenge to convince investors in Malaysia for some time to come. That
is the reason he chose to list most of the companies in Australia, although none of the operations is
there. Australian investors, like those in New York, are savvier when it comes to valuing technology
companies, many of which can have tremendous growth potential but may not be immediately profitable,
he says.

“The Malaysian market doesn’t understand the growth potential, which is why this [Catcha Media] is
notoriously under appreciated,” he says, referring to the Malaysia-listed company that owns 27.4% of
ASX-listed iCar Asia and had a market cap of RM117.14 million as at April 4. This is less than the
RM211 million that its stake should be worth, going by iCar Asia’s RM769.77 million market cap as at
April 4.
“It’s one of the region’s largest Internet media companies due to its stake in iCar Asia, but it suffers from
a market cap mismatch and as a young dotcom company, it has years to grow yet,” Grove says.
iCar Asia operates a network of online automotive sites in Asean that reaches over 4.5 million potential
car buyers and sellers a month in Thailand, Malaysia and Indonesia, but made a net loss of A$6.9 million
in 2013 largely because of a jump in marketing and employment-related expenses.
The Catcha group of companies, Grove says, continues to look for mergers and acquisitions
opportunities in the region to ensure it secures the No 1 spot in the businesses it is in, and it is not alone.

“The Internet is a battlefield where the winner takes it all. If you think of a sector, usually only one brand
survives. Search, it is really just Google … video, it is YouTube … there isn’t much room to be a No 2. I
can’t think of many categories where the No 2 or No 3 player is a rewarding business whereas offline,
multiple brands can co-exist,” he says, sharing the perspective of technology firms on why acquisitions for
dominance are necessary.
Sigve Brekke, Telenor Group’s executive vice-president and head for Asia, agrees that there is little
space for a No 2 player in the online space. Faced with changing consumer behaviour, the Norwegian
telecommunications operator, which controls mobile phone units in developed and emerging markets in
Eastern Europe and Asia, is investing in online classified sites as part of its strategy to bring Internet to
the masses.

Page212of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“Successful classified sites have highly attractive economics, but primarily when they reach the No 1
position in their market,” Brekke tells The Edge, adding that the typical Ebitda margin for companies that
have secured the No 1 position is in the 50% to 70% range.
When asked about Facebook buying WhatsApp, his only comment is that an acquisition that size would
have “wiped out” Telenor, whose market cap stands at US$33 billion. The same can be said about
Singapore Telecommunications Ltd, whose market cap stands at US$46 billion. It is another telecoms
operator that has been making acquisitions to improve its position in the Internet space. The acquisitions
include a company that allows it to better monetise online advertising and small sites
like HungryGoWhere.com for S$12 million in 2012.

The techie’s maths guide

Having bought and grown start-ups into multimillion-dollar companies, Grove, an accountant by training,
agrees with Facebook founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg that WhatsApp is “worth more” than US$19
billion.

“The bet is never about how the maths works. The maths always works … The biggest thing that the big
tech companies are scared of is someone else inventing something bigger that stops the maths from
coming through,” Grove says.

“When things are going well, you always have a few that get a crazy price for a so-so business and
people will say this is a bubble. But right now, there is a lot more support for the Internet businesses than
in the first wave, when there were no success stories. It was pure betting. Facebook hasn’t even started
yet but now it is profitable and Google is profitable,” he replies when asked what has changed since the
first tech bubble burst and whether a second bubble will burst at some point.
Google, which ended 2013 with US$58.72 billion in cash and cash equivalents, reported a 20.3%
year-on-year growth in net income to US$12.92 billion last year on revenue that rose 19.2% to US$59.83
billion.
Facebook made a net income of US$1.5 billion on revenue of US$5.09 billion last year. It is not adding
as many users as it used to, but still has 1.23 billion users who log in at least once a month and 757
million who use it every day.
The acquisition spree of these companies pushed up the prices of tech stocks as well as their own
significantly in the past two years. With their cash pile still high, the chances are that acquisitions will
continue to prop up the prices of the better Internet companies, even those that may not have much profit
to show, because the greatest fear of tech companies is that someone else is inventing something better
than what they have to offer.
“So, if someone invents something better, buy them. Is WhatsApp really worth more than Maxis and
DiGi? Well, yeah. There is no way Maxis would have given up its entire company for one free messaging
app whereas something like Facebook would want to own everything that people are using socially,”
Grove explains.
“If something causes everyone to use Facebook, say, 20% less, that’s worth US$19 billion to Facebook.
Against the US$19 billion [for WhatsApp], the US$1 billionFacebook paid for Instagram in 2012 looks
cheap, doesn’t it?”
Sceptics, however, reckon that growth is already slowing for even big names like Facebook. While China
Mobile in 2013 reported its first annual profit decline in 14 years as rising costs cut margins and the
popularity of Tencent’s mobile messaging application WeChat (known as Weixin in China) caused a
6.5% drop in revenue from text and multimedia messages, Tencent too posted its slowest profit growth in
two years as marketing expenses rose.

Seven years to profitability?
Growth is bound to slow down at some point for any company, but Grove reckons that Internet
companies that successfully command the loyalty of a sizeable user base will always command good
premiums. He should know because he is still hunting and thinks the big boys will continue to hunt to
grow and protect their turf.

“The way we decide on acquisitions is if it gives us users, revenue or profits, we want it … In the Internet
world, the winner takes it all because people just want to go to the service that they know everyone is
using … People in the tech world understand that there is a journey you have got to go through and this
journey typically takes five to seven years.

Page213of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“First is to get lots of users and as long as the users don’t leave, as long as they get addicted [to the
service], you can start to charge money — a little bit first and as long as the users stay, you can charge a
little bit more. WhatsApp doesn’t need to charge us now; they want to make sure we all get addicted and
all the competitors die … and five years from now, that US$19 billion will look cheap, assuming
something better doesn’t come up.”

Even if something better does turn up, Facebook has shown its willingness to open its purse. And now
that the number of success stories is adding up, Grove thinks there is no better time than now to be on
the technology scene.

“We want to tell the Catcha story, but we also want the path to be easier for the next 20-year-old looking
to start a tech company. I was told to get a real job when I started, but this is better than any real
[conventional] job.”

If Grove is right about the need to take a leap of faith to profit from tech start-ups, investors might have to
rethink the process of valuing tech companies. Wouldn’t any investor want to own, say, WhatsApp or
Amazon.com that have gone from US$40 levels in early 2009 to US$400 levels now?

On the flipside, anyone familiar with tech start-ups knows that for every success story, there is a truckload
of flops. Those who succeed in identifying gems will join the ranks of Jim Goetz’s Sequoia Capital, the
venture capital company that is said to have reaped US$3.5 billion or 50 times its investment in
WhatsApp and also reportedly made money from PayPal, Instagram and YouTube, which Google bought
for US$1.65 billion in 2006.

CO

IN

NS

cmberh : Catcha Media Bhd | ctchom : Catcha Media Group | ipgalt : iProperty Group Limited | stapb :
Star Publications (Malaysia) Bhd
isocial : Social Media | iint : Internet/Online | imed : Media/Entertainment | itech : Technology | i475 :
Printing/Publishing | i4751 : Newspaper Publishing | i838 : Advertising | i83944 : Internet Service
Providers | iadv : Advertising/Marketing/Public Relations | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | icre : Real
Estate/Construction | imark : Marketing | ipubl : Publishing | ireest : Real Estate
c32 : Advertising | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB The Edge Communications Sdn Bhd.
AN

Document EDGEWK0020140409ea470000s

Page214of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.