Coal always wins and will stay No. 1, says carbon king Boyce

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Coal always wins and will stay No. 1, says carbon king Boyce

Amanda Saunders
928 words
12 August 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
15
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Peabody Energy chief executive Greg Boyce is calling on coal producers to spend more time and
money fighting "symbolic" movements against the industry and is confident China will not adopt a cap
on carbon emissions.
As the anti-coal collective gathers more mainstream backers, St Louis-based Mr Boyce says the
industry needs to do more to counter the attacks, particularly the global fossil fuels divestment
campaign.

But he is confident that "coal always wins out".

"If as an industry if we spent more time educating, if we all spent more money, we would have less of
these symbolic moves, which are really done without a full knowledge of the equation," he said in an
exclusive interview.
If the coal industry "spent more time and money explaining the good that we do . . . people [would]
understand what the new coal industry looks like", he said.
Mr Boyce expects global coal demand to grow by 700 million tonnes over the next three years, driven
in the main by China.
Peabody, which has a market capitalisation of about $US4.2 billion ($4.5 billion), is one of the largest
coal producers in the world.
"There is a reason why coal has been the No.1 fuel in the world for the last 10 years, and why it is
projected to be No.1 over the next 10 years: because it always wins out," he said.
"From a global perspective, 80 per cent of our energy comes from fossil fuels. It's going to be that way
for the rest of our lifetimes and beyond."
A global divestment campaign to push banks and fund managers to pull capital from the coal industry
has just started to gain momentum in Australia. It aims to stop coal's progress by forcing a wedge
between the fossil fuel industry and debt and equity investors.

"I think the folks that have gone down this path are doing it perhaps [because] they believe there is
some symbolism in it," Mr Boyce said.

"But at the end of the day they are not putting economic activity – and ultimately they are not putting
what is the best plan for a better environment – at the top of their priority list."
Like BHP Billiton boss Andrew Mackenzie, Mr Boyce argues that coal is crucial to pulling the world's
poorest out of  "energy poverty", and says divestment proponents are largely from developed countries.

Page157of239©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The local coal divestment movement is backed by 350.org and activist investment group Market
Forces; the key targets now are Australia's big four banks. It has won support from Bendigo and
Adelaide Bank, AMP Capital, education industry fund Unisuper and a collective of smaller Australian
deposit takers including bankmecu, Credit Union Australia, Beyond Bank and Defence
Bank.FIfth-largest Australian producer The lion's share of Peabody's operations are in the United
States, mainly in thermal coal, but it is also the fifth-largest coal producer in Australia, with a portfolio of
10 mines. Peabody has taken a huge earnings hit on its Australian holdings, amid dramatic falls in coal
prices since the lofty highs of mid-2011.
But Mr Boyce is bullish on the future for coal exports, saying China will not adopt a carbon emissions
cap, despite growing speculation that Beijing could enforce one.
Last month, economist Ross Garnaut told The Australian Financial Review that China's appetite for
thermal coal may already be in decline, which could see Beijing make bolder promises to reduce
carbon emissions, at little cost. Professor Garnaut, who pioneered the now-defunct carbon price in
Australia, projects that China's consumption of thermal coal will fall at an average annual rate of
0.7 per cent from now to 2020.
But Mr Boyce said that though China was working to reduce its carbon intensity per unit of GDP, a cap
on carbon emissions was "just not on the cards".

"Those are two completely different things," he said. "Ross Garnaut, of all people, should know that
China can't grow its economy without having a continued total increase in carbon. As long as we are
globally 80 per cent fossil fuels, you are going to have growth in carbon emissions. "

Mr Boyce also applauded Prime Minister Tony Abbott's support of the fossil fuels industry. "I think the
PM has it exactly right, in terms of: you have got to worry about people, you have got to worry about
economic activity; once you get those two parts of the equation correct, then you can make significant
advances in the environment."

He pointed to the European Union, saying member countries had "decimated their economies, moving
down these 10-year paths of high-renewable targets and carbon management".

And Mr Boyce was scathing of climate change advocates who argue it is the most critical issue facing
the world today, pointing instead to the challenge of pulling 3.5 billion people out of poverty globally.
"I think energy poverty is the biggest environmental and human problem that we have; I don't believe
that it is the changing climate," he said. "The environmental issues that are driven by global poverty far
outweigh anything we might model looking at climate models for the next 50 years. And remember,
that's all they are: models.

"How we expect to drive global economic activity and have a healthy micro and macro-environment on
this globe when we've got that much energy poverty? I just don't understand."

CO
IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

pbdy : Peabody Energy Corp
i1 : Energy | i111 : Coal Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
gclimt : Climate Change | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | genv :
Environmental News | gglobe : Global/World Issues | gwea : Weather
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140811ea8c00024

Page158of239©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.