Queues for Greenland's Lucent

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Queues for Greenland's Lucent

Su-Lin Tan
482 words
22 September 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
3
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

The long line of investors waiting to buy prominent Chinese developer Greenland Group's new
luxury residential units in north Sydney on Saturday was just one more sign of another buoyant
property weekend in Sydney.
Before the crowd control barriers had been removed, more than 50 per cent of the 211-apartment
Lucent project at 225 Pacific Highway, set to be completed in 2016, had been sold in simultaneous
sales in Sydney, Hong Kong and Shanghai.

Most buyers were local and overseas Asian investors. Fifteen per cent had been approved by the
Foreign Investment Review Board for sale to overseas buyers, and all were snapped up.

Half of the two-bedroom apartments in the 17-storey development, which boasts views of the
Sydney Harbour, were bought by owner-occupiers.
Greenland's development and marketing director, Kang Xue, said the company was not worried
about Sydney's property market. "We believe there is no bubble. Demand exceeds supply at the
moment. And that is local demand," he said.

Mr Xue said overseas investors were also no concern.

"We believe FIRB is doing very well in regulating foreign investment."

But Commonwealth Bank of Australia chief economist Michael Blyth has criticised FIRB for failing
to adequately monitor and keep records of overseas investments in the Australian property market,
amid concerns that foreign buyers are inflating prices.

Mr Blythe told Channel Nine's Financial Review Sunday program that foreign investors, particularly
from Asia, were adding an "extra layer of froth to an already bubbly" property market. "The problem
is, of course, the data that we do get is quite dated. There are some questions there about how
accurate and reliable it is.

"So the answer is that we don't really know. It does come down to anecdotes in terms of what's
happening in the housing story at the moment."
Since entering the Australian market to build Sydney's tallest apartment tower, the 67-storey
Greenland Centre, Greenland has launched more residential projects including Lucent.

"We can't say exactly how many more projects we have but there will definitely be more in the
Sydney CBD and its fringes next year," Mr Xue said.
He said Asian investors buy in Australia because of its education system, and social and political
stability.

Page138of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The Lucent apartments range from $528,000 for a studio to $1.75 million for a three-bedroom
property.
The Cheungs, a local family from Eastwood, bought a one-bedroom, one-study apartment for
$838,000 as an investment. "Was it on the top floor? "God, no. Our friends in Shanghai tell us it's
good quality so we are prepared to pay top price," Mr Cheung said.

He said competition for investment properties in Sydney is high. "Buying apartments is like buying
iPhones. You have to fight for it."

With Bianca Hartge-Hazelman

IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

i5010022 : Residential Building Construction | ireest : Real Estate | i501 : Building Construction |
iconst : Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction
glux : Luxury Homes/Estates | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | greest : Real
Estate/Property
austr : Australia | greenl : Greenland | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | namz : North America | nswals : New South Wales
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140921ea9m0000d

Page139of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.