JPMorgan: Alumina Better Placed to Restart Dividends -- Market Talk

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

JPMorgan: Alumina Better Placed to Restart Dividends -- Market Talk

1,504 words
17 October 2014
08:50
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

17:50 EDT - Alumina (AWC.AU) is in a better position to restart dividend payments following the sale by
Alcoa World Alumina, a JV with Alcoa (AA), of its 55% interest in the Jamalco bauxite and refining
assets to Singapore's Noble (N21.SG), JPMorgan says. While Jamalco's sale price of US$140M was
below JPMorgan's net present value of US$183M, proceeds will help Alumina bring its debt down. "We
believe the top down story is positive on Alumina based on increasing tightness in aluminum, alumina,
and bauxite markets, along with AUD weakness," says JPMorgan analyst Lyndon Fagan. However, the
stock is already factoring in US$370/ton alumina at spot AUD, and that's pushed it close to JPMorgan's
A$1.70/share price target. AWC last traded at A$1.59. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

17:49 EDT - Ebola-themed drug stocks are real wild cards at the moment. Infected patients have
received a mix of experimental drugs, but none has been tested in large clinical trials in people infected
with the disease. That will change in the coming weeks as different trials get underway. Chimerix
(CMRX) said today it plans to begin a trial of its antiviral, brincidofovir, "immediately" in Ebola-infected
patients. The drug has shown potential activity against the Ebola virus in test-tube evaluations. It's also
been tested in human clinical trials to treat other viruses, including cytomegalovirus and adenovirus.
CMRX closed 10% higher at $35.40. (jeanne.whalen@wsj.com)
17:47 EDT - CSL Ltd. (CSL.AU) CEO Paul Perreault says the company is exploring whether it can
develop a blood-plasma-based product to treat Ebola infection, at the request of the Bill & Melinda Gates
Foundation. The idea would be to collect plasma donated by people who have recovered from Ebola and
develop it into a "hyper-immune" serum that can be transfused into infected patients. The plasma from
recovered patients typically has antibodies that doctors think can help fight the virus. Perreault says it's
technically possible, but the logistics of collecting plasma from people in Africa could be difficult. The
company, a leader in making immunoglobulin products that treat diseases including immune disorder, is
still exploring the idea. (peter.loftus@wsj.com)

17:46 EDT - Goldman Sachs (GS) added more staff in 3Q than it has in years. Headcount grew 3% over
the quarter, reaching 33,500, according to results out today. That's significant because 3Q is when new
hires recruited from colleges and business schools typically get added onto the payroll. The last time GS
added that many employees in 3Q was 2010, as the firm recovered from the financial crisis. A year later,
however, the company reported a loss for the quarter and shed almost all of its increased headcount.
Shares closed 2.6% lower at $172.58. (john.carney@wsj.com, @carney)
17:36 EDT - Barclays says it's time to stop the bloodletting from MLPs. With falling oil prices prompting
fears that US oil production will slow down, many investors fled from the corporate partnerships that
typically own pipelines and other energy infrastructure. But Barclays says at the $80 per barrel level,
prices are plenty high enough to keep the oil flowing. They also note that low prices could encourage
M&A activity among midstream companies. Investors seem to agree: The Alerian MLP Index (AMZ) rose
4.6% today, though it's still down 6% from a month ago. (alison.sider@wsj.com)

17:33 EDT - It's good to be Google (GOOGL). It is also expensive. The Web search giant reports a 20%
jump in revenue for 3Q on year, but earnings came in well below analysts' estimates, with signs that the
company's already-high level of spending seems to be headed higher. Google's quarterly operating
expenses topped $6B for the first time, and were about 37% of total revenue, from 34% in 3Q last year.
New hires added 6% to the workforce in Google's core business, which excludes Motorola, compared to
2Q. GOOGL down after hours, but rising costs shouldn't come as a surprise to investors. Google has

Page55of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.been signaling its intentions to invest heavily in the face of more competition from Microsoft (MSFT),
Apple (AAPL) and Amazon.com (AMZN), among others. For now, the quarterly reminder of the bill is still
jarring. (dan.gallagher@wsj.com)

17:31 EDT - HSBC is bullish platinum, despite recent sharp drops in both of the PGMs. Here's why:
Industrial users such as automakers, the single largest source of demand for platinum, are likely to view
the current discounted prices as an attractive time to buy. The bank also expects jewelry consumption to
grow ahead of the holiday season, especially in China. Finally, a five-month-long South African miners'
strike that came to an end in late June has made supplies of the metals scarce. Platinum closed at
$1251.90 a troy ounce, down 17% from its highs of the year. (ira.iosebashvili@wsj.com)

17:24 EDT - Stryker (SYK) has missed its internal expectations for selling new surgical robot systems,
company says. SYK, best known for hip and knee implants, got into the robot business with its $1.65B
acquisition of MAKO Surgical Corp. last year. Reaping synergies between robots and implants "has
proven more challenging than we anticipated," says Katherine Owen, vice president for strategy, on
SYK's 3Q earnings call. SYK was "over optimistic" about how quickly it could integrate MAKO's capital
equipment sales force with SYK's implant sales team, Ms. Owen says. "We are confident that the market
for robots is improving as we have a strong pipeline of deals we are working on," she says. SYK shares
flat after-hours. (joseph.walker@wsj.com)

17:12 EDT - Advanced Micro Devices (AMD) expects revenue in the current quarter to decline about
13% from the third period results, which the chip maker issued this afternoon. That's a lot worse than
expected on the Street, where analysts tracked by Thomson Reuters had projected a slight sequential
increase. Besides weakness and market share losses in PC chips to Intel (INTC), AMD may be fearing
the impact of new graphics chips from Nvidia (NVDA), says Joanne Feeney, who tracks AMD for ABR
Investment Strategy. AMD off 5.3% to $2.50 after hours. (don.clark@wsj.com)

17:09 EDT - Investors withdrew $549M from junk bond funds in the week ended Oct. 15, after ploughing
$1.28B into them the prior week, says fund tracker Lipper. The market has been whipsawed along with
the drubbing stocks and commodities have received from fears about global growth. Selling has
continued as fund managers look to raise cash to meet redemptions. The risk premium investors were
demanding to own US junk-rated corporate bonds rose to 5.08 percentage point above comparable
Treasurys Wednesday, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index, from 4.66 points at the start of
the week and 3.97 points in mid-September. (katy.burne@wsj.com)
17:05 EDT - Southwestern Energy's (SWN) purchase of 413,000 acres in West Virginia and southwest
Pennsylvania from Chesapeake Energy (CHK) is contingent on an okay from Norway's Statoil (STO).
The international oil and gas company, which entered into a joint venture in the Marcellus shale with
CHK in 2008, said it holds an interest in the acreage being bought and is reviewing the $5.4B
transaction. SWN CEO Steve Mueller acknowledged during a conference call that the deal needs the
consent of a co-owner, but didn't name STO. SWN fell 10% to close at $31.97. (erin.ailworth@wsj.com;
@ailworth))
16:55 EDT - The drop in the price of Mexico's oil exports is not a concern for public finances in the
short-term but could weaken the economy down the road, says Banco Ve Por Mas. Short-term risks are
mitigated by the government's oil hedges along with a revision of the 2015 exchange rate to project
more peso income from oil sales, it says. "The principle risk for Mexico in the medium- and long-term
comes from the heavy dependence on oil for public finances," which represents about a third of the
federal budget. "This could potentially deteriorate the macroeconomic fundamentals of the country, which
have been distinctive of Mexico in periods of volatility and have allowed it to better handle itself than
other economies," the bank says. (laurence.iliff@wsj.com)

To contact the Market Talk Editors,
Kevin Kingsbury, 212 416-2354, kevin.kingsbury@wsj.com
Cynthia Lin, 212 416-4403, Cynthia.lin@wsj.com
John Shipman, 212 416-2181, john.shipman@wsj.com
Patrick Sullivan, 212 416-2326, Patrick.sullivan@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

October 16, 2014 17:50 ET (21:50 GMT)

CO
IN

almam : ALCOA Inc | cnyc : JPMorgan Chase & Co. | wstmn : Alumina Ltd
i2245 : Aluminum | i22 : Primary Metals | i224 : Non-ferrous Metals | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources
| i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | imet : Mining/Quarrying

Page56of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

RE

c1512 : Dividends | c1521 : Analyst Comments/Recommendations | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News |
gout : Outbreaks/Epidemics | namt : All Market Talk | ndjmt : Dow Jones Market Talk | neqac : Equities
Asset Class News | c15 : Performance | c151 : Earnings | c152 : Earnings Projections | cactio :
Corporate Actions | gcat : Political/General News | ghea : Health | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | usa : United States | use : Northeast U.S. | uspa : Pennsylvania | apacz : Asia Pacific |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North America

PUB Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
AN

Document DJDN000020141016eaag0043w

Page57of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.