$22m Surry Hills sale

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

Property
$22m Surry Hills sale

Mercedes Ruehl
237 words
17 December 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
34
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Perth-based investor Security Capital has bought a Surry Hills commercial asset in Sydney for
$22.123 million.
The building at 19 Foster Street was refurbished this year by the vendor, W Property.

The five-level property has two street frontages and is fully leased with a weighted average lease
expiry of more than six years. The sale price reflected a yield of 7.2 per cent.

Colliers International's Paul Fernandes brokered the deal.

"This reflects the strength in the Surry Hills market, where assets are hard to come by," Mr
Fernandes said.

"The asset also has frontage to Wentworth Avenue which is going through a rejuvenation."
Mr Fernandes said the area was a popular commercial precinct. It is tightly held for office
accommodation, with only two properties available that could provide more than 1000 square
metres of office space.
The heritage building burnt down in the 1930s. Since buying it several years ago, W Property has
been leasing and repositioning the asset.
Tenants include media company Guardian Australia, Snap Fitness on the ground floor, TKD
Architects and Kvadrat Maharam.

The area is close to well-known restaurants such as Longrain and Nomad.
The property has a net lettable area of 3249 square metres.
It is surrounded by a range of residential and commercial developments, and is in close proximity
to Central Station, Chinatown, Centennial Plaza and Hyde Park.

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
c182 : Physical Asset Transactions | ceffic : Corporate Restructuring | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c18 :
Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New
South Wales
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141216each0003s

Page244of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.