Grocon loss ‘an aberration’

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

PrimeSpace
Grocon loss ‘an aberration’

Exclusive: Damon Kitney
751 words
6 November 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
26
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

The company says it’s quickly heading back into the black
The nation’s largest privately owned construction company is confident a $1.5 billion development
pipeline in the year ahead will propel it back into the black after posting a $23.1 million loss last year
following several big project completions and a series of one-off costs.

Grocon chief executive Carolyn Viney told The Australian yesterday that the result for the year to June
30 was due to the “naturally bumpy nature of the industry that we operate in’’ and said the company
was in transition from being a pure construction firm to a diversified developer.
Asked if she could guarantee the company would be profitable in the current year, she replied:
“Absolutely’’.

“If you were taking the 24 months combined, you would be very happy,’’ she said, describing last
year’s result as “a timing issue”.

“We have worked hard over the past 12 months in building the project pipeline. These projects are
now secured and in the process of being funded,’’ she said.
She was referring to the $500m Commonwealth Games Athletes’ Village on the Gold Coast, the
$500m The Ribbon development in Sydney and a $300m residential development in Melbourne.

Middle East-based Abu Dhabi Investment Council is backing the Commonwealth Games project.

Accounts lodged with the corporate regulator show that while Grocon’s total revenues, including joint
ventures, rose from $544.5m to $571m last year, revenue from its core business was down almost
$30m. The company’s cost of sales also increased by $40m, while it booked $5.8m worth of
impairment losses on property, plant and equipment.
But despite the company reporting a loss, a dividend of $2.43m was declared, compared to none
being paid in the prior year.
The dividend will be distributed to the company’s owner, executive chairman and third-generation heir
Daniel Grollo.

Mr Grollo took full control of Grocon in April 2012 in a complex family succession.

Asked about the payment, Ms Viney said: “The business was in a position to do it this year. It is a
decision made by the board, which includes independent directors.’’ The company’s 2015 result is
set to be boosted by a series of asset sales, most notably the former Carlton brewery site in
Melbourne that was sold for $58.3m to a private development company from China in late
September.

Page129of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.It was also the site where three pedestrians were killed last year following a freak wall collapse that is
now subject to litigation by the Victorian safety regulator.
The accounts said the site sale resulted “in a substantial gain on sale on the 30 June 2014 carrying
value’’.

“The proceeds will be used to repay the loan facilities that are secured against the land and to support
the investment in a significant and diverse project pipeline,’’ the accounts said.
Subsequent to June 30, the Grocon board has also approved the sale of non core plant and
equipment with a carrying value of $6m.
Grocon has been expanding the residential component of its national workbook and its profits now
largely flow from its development business.
The group brings third party equity into projects and last year struck a landmark Australian real
estate joint venture with investment bank UBS. The next leg of its growth strategy is government work
and social infrastructure.

“We see a big part of the market going forward as building infrastructure for government,’’ Ms Viney
said. “We are looking at that with confidence’’.

She said the construction market generally was “performing much better than … expected.’’ “Sydney
is particularly strong ... because it is playing catch up,’’ she said. “The growth in the residential market
is keeping people busy.’’ Asked about the dangers of a residential housing bubble, Ms Viney cited a
Grocon residential project earlier this year that sold so well, the company was encouraged to
increase the apartment prices. But it declined.

“The only times when things get out of control is when people go too far off centre. We are keen to
maintain a position of balance,’’ she said.

Last year’s result compared to a $25.9m profit in 2013, that was ahead of budget and slightly up on its
$25.1m result of 2012.While the company has been trying to deliver more consistent returns,
especially since securing the UBS joint venture last year, Ms Viney said she was confident the 2014
result was an aberration.

CO
IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

grobe : Grocon Pty Ltd
i501 : Building Construction | iconst : Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction
c182 : Asset Transactions | c151 : Earnings | c184 : Joint Ventures | c15 : Performance | c18 :
Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141105eab60003e

Page130of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.