Australia gets cold shoulder

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Australia gets cold shoulder

Tim Binsted
552 words
17 October 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
33
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Global money managers are at their most negative in two years, with sentiment turning against
Australia, China and the materials and energy sectors, a survey has found.

Bank of America Merrill Lynch's October global fund manager survey found that the big money is
running from the resources industry and positioning for a stronger US dollar.

Growth and inflation expectations are at two-year lows and company profit expectations are at
18-month lows. Despite the gloom just 8 per cent of survey respondents expect a global recession.
The global part of the survey covered 176 institutions with $508 billion under management; the
regional survey got responses from 103 investors managing a combined $264 billion of assets.
As investors rushed to dump mining and energy stocks, banks and technology stocks were the most
popular additions to investor portfolios.

But Australian banks appear to have missed out on the love. In September, Commonwealth Bank
(-6.6 per cent), ANZ Bank (-7.5 per cent), Westpac (-8.8 per cent) and NAB (-7.5 per cent) led the
downward charge as Australian shares shed 6 per cent over the month.

The Australian dollar was trading at US88.2¢ on Thursday, down from about US94¢ at the start of
September.

Perpetual head of investment market research Matt Sherwood said economic growth concerns centre
on Europe and China; the one place there is no worry about growth is the United States. "Their
economy looks robust and this has probably led to some selldown of Australian assets and people
looking to repatriate money to the US," he said. "The Australian economy looks very subdued."

As investors chase exposure to the US dollar, they also recognise that the trade is becoming
crowded, with almost 45 per cent of respondents tipping long US dollar as the most crowded strategy.

Almost one in two investors thinks shares are the asset class most vulnerable to a rise in volatility in
2015, followed by bonds and then currencies.

South Korea, Thailand and Australia are the three least-fancied countries for Asia Pacific investors.
The Philippines, New Zealand and Malaysia are the three top picks in the region.
In a bad sign for Australia's resources-dependent economy and mining-heavy sharemarket, a net
total of 35 per cent of fund managers think China's economy is set to weaken, up from 25 per cent
last month.
Commodity prices have been under heavy pressure this year. Brent crude oil has been flirting with
four-year lows and iron ore, a key earnings driver for big Australian miners BHP Billiton, Rio Tinto
and Fortescue Metals, is just recovering from its five-year low. Coal prices remain in the doldrums.

Page321of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."In 2011, 2012 and 2013 Australia was a very attractive home in the search for yield and had what
was still a reasonably robust economy," Mr Sherwood said. "Now that process is certainly in reverse."
Underscoring the investor shift away from equity markets, fund managers' cash positions increased
to 4.9 per cent from 4.6 per cent, while overweight equity positions fell to 34 per cent from 47 per
cent last month.

Almost 50 per cent of investors think the US Federal Reserve will raise interest rates in the second
quarter of 2015.

NS
RE
PUB
AN

ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | nsur : Surveys/Polls | ncat : Content Types
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141016eaah00017

Page322of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.