Padbury's talks raise hopes for Oakajee

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Finance
Padbury's talks raise hopes for Oakajee

SARAH-JANE TASKER, INFRASTRUCTURE
469 words
20 March 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
1 - All-round Country
18
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

PADBURY Mining, the junior company that wants to breathe life back into the failed $6 billion
Oakajee port and rail project, has given the market hope it is on track to do just that.
The company revealed yesterday that it had signed numerous non-disclosure agreements to allow
interested parties to examine its data on the ambitious West Australian project. ``A number of
international consultants have completed their assessment of the data and discussions continue,''
Padbury said.

Oakajee Port & Rail, which is owned by Mitsubishi, once had exclusive rights to develop the project.
However, it shelved plans and its associated Jack Hills iron ore mine in June last year, blaming
weaker iron ore prices and a failure to secure an equity partner to fund the massive project.
Padbury never believed OPR's project would be successful and the company spent $2.25 million in
2011 to acquire the intellectual property from Chinese-backed Yilgarn Infrastructure, which lost a
government tender to build the project in 2008.
The company has put its focus firmly on this infrastructure project and told investors last month that
executive chairman Terry Quinn and managing director Gary Stokes were returning to Korea for
further talks, after an initial visit in October.

Padbury said yesterday Mr Quinn and Mr Stokes had been invited back to Korea to continue
negotiations for the EPC (engineering, procurement and construction) contractor selection process
at the end of the month.
Mr Stokes told The Australian last year the company always believed the massive project would get
up, but it was a matter of having the right players and the right team, which he had been working on
non-stop for the past year.

But given the spectacular failure of the previous attempt to develop the port and rail infrastructure
needed to support development in Western Australia's Mid-West region, Padbury has been careful
not to over-promise and under-deliver.

``This project has a 30-year history of building expectations up and then dropping everyone in the
manure and we don't want to be another player in that field,'' Mr Stokes has said.
The Perth-based company also announced yesterday that it had held talks with potential
international EPC contractors and international and domestic rail and port operators to assist
Padbury in bringing the project to fruition.

Shares in Padbury received a lift yesterday following the announcement, closing the day 16.67 per
cent higher at 1.4c.

Page126of315©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The company had received a speeding ticket from the Australian Securities Exchange last week --
its second in three months -- after its share price hit an intraday high of 1.4c on March 10. The ASX
also noted an increase in the volume of trading in Padbury's securities.

NS
RE
PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140319ea3k0004w

Page127of315©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.