Why Abbott's faith in coal could be very wrong

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News Review
Why Abbott's faith in coal could be very wrong

Tom Allard
1,664 words
18 October 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
28
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

We are on the cusp of a huge shift to renewable energy, writes Tom Allard.

In the baking expanses of the high desert near Reno, Nevada, a project is under way that could well
make a mockery of Tony Abbott's prediction this week that the coal industry will underpin Australia's
prosperity for decades.

The brainchild of billionaireElon Musk, the technology radical who was has built his fortune
disrupting traditional industries, the $US5 billion gigafactory will be the one of the world's biggest
buildings, producing lithium-ion batteries on a mind-boggling scale.
The high-tech batteries have extraordinary capacity to store energy and are used in electric cars.
Musk's Tesla company already produces high-end vehicles that are growing in popularity in the
United States.

Musk's aim is to use the economies of scale to drive down the price of the batteries by 50 per cent by
2020. That will make electric cars as affordable as cars fuelled by petrol, and much cheaper to run. If
the project succeeds, the changes it will bring to the automotive industry will be huge, with obvious
implications for the global demand for oil.

But rapid advances and price falls in electricity storage technologies like lithium batteries will
reverberate way beyond the automotive sector.
According to a growing band of investment bankers and energy market economists, it could
fundamentally recast the way the world produces and consumes power.

As Swiss Bank UBS told its clients in August, the world is on the cusp of a once-in-a-century shift
towards renewable energy led by "solar and batteries". Power stations fuelled by fossil fuels like
coal will be the "dinosaur of the future energy system".

"By 2025, everybody will be able to produce and store power. And it will be green and
cost-competitive."
The consequences for coal producers and the fossil fuel industry that Australia relies heavily upon
are immense.

At the opening of a massive new colliery in the Bowen Basin in central Queensland on Monday, the
notion that the world could be on the cusp of an energy revolution was farthest from the mind of our
Prime Minister.
"Coal is good for humanity," he said in a direct rebuke to a growing anti-coal campaign. "Energy is
what sustains our prosperity, and coal is the world's principal energy source and it will be for many
decades to come."

Page200of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The comments, predictably, outraged environmentalists. The global expansion of electricity
generation dominated by coal is the biggest source of greenhouse gas emissions that scientists
estimate will increase global temperatures by a catastrophic 3 to 4 degrees by the end of the century
if no action is taken.

But the remarks also produced gasps of incredulity among financial analysts.
Markets have already let their views be known on coal's prospects - driving down prices by 60 per
cent since their highs of 2011.

While the government has been dismantling climate-change mitigation policies, acting as boosters
for the mining industry and wreaking havoc among renewable energy firms, investors worldwide
have been flocking to clean energy companies.
Citigroup believes coal demand is in structural decline. HSBC says traditional power plants will
never see profitability "anything near" that of the past decade. Deutsche Bank won't finance polluting
industries.

"Australians have been sold the myth that the world has an insatiable and everlasting desire to buy
our coal," says Kobad Bhavnagri, head of the Australian operation of Bloomberg New Energy
finance. "The reality is demand for coal in the developed world is declining, and the developing world
is turning as fast as it can to other sources of power.
"At some stage coal is destined to become a low-value commodity, probably at a faster pace than
many appreciate or are willing to admit.

"Meanwhile, Australia's policymakers are doubling down on tying the economy to a fuel source of the
past."
Not everyone is so pessimistic. Some analysts - and the industry - see continuing growth in China
and India, the two countries responsible for almost 90 per cent of the increased demand for coal in
the past decade.
The latest report from Australia's Bureau of Resource and Energy Economics notes that coal
continues to dominate China, and its coal-fired power stations have a lifespan of 50 to 60 years,
meaning it will be a "few decades" before there are any large-scale closures.
Good quality coal, such as that produced by Australia, plus carbon-capture technology, mean China
can still rely on thermal coal while improving air quality, it adds.

Moreover, India's new prime minister, Narendra Modi, has announced a hugely ambitious program to
electrify a nation where 300 million live without power.
Tim Buckley, the former head of Citigroup's equity research division now working for the
lower-carbon advocating Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis, says the
assessment fails to appreciate the determination of Chinese authorities to address the country's
terrible pollution problem.

"You just have to look at their five-year plans to see how serious they are," he says.
Accelerating a trend that's been apparent for years, two-thirds of new power generation in China last
year came from renewable energy - solar, wind or hydroelectric. According to Buckley's projections,
demand for coal in China will peak by 2016.
As for India, Mr Modi has also embraced solar and wind energy, although he still sees a place for
coal. In the past three months, three-quarters of new power projects announced in India have been
for renewable energy plants, including a massive solar facility in Tamil Nadu.
The "game changer" though for coal - and oil and gas - are the advances in electricity storage,
exemplified by the gigafactory being built at the foot of the Sierra Nevada mountains by Mr Musk.

The electricity system based on large-scale power stations was developed on the principle that
power must be immediately consumed. That means having hugely expensive back-up capacity to be
turned on for the handful of days each year when there are uncommon peaks in electricity, such as
during a heatwave.
Advanced energy storage, says UBS, the world's largest private bank, means "you don't need to
overproduce and you don't need back-up reserves."

Page201of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.When combined with solar panels, cheaper and more powerful batteries will enable households and
businesses to capture energy during the day and store it until peak usage times, traditionally in the
early evening.
"By 2020 investing in a home solar system with a 20-year life span, plus some small-scale home
battery technology and an electric car, will pay for itself in six to eight years," it said in a briefing note
to clients in August. As such, households and businesses will rely less and less on the main power
grids fuelled by coal, gas and nuclear energy.

"We are at a tipping point," Mr Bhavnagri says. "The only question is exactly when."

For consumers looking to cut their power bills and governments determined to find cheap, green
technology to combat climate change, the possibilities of the technology are hugely exciting.

On the evidence of this week, when the federal government unleashed a full court press in support of
fossil fuels, the fervour for the transformation of global energy appears to have completely passed it
by.

As well as Mr Abbott's entreaties from central Queensland, he lambasted the "stupid decision" of the
Australian National University's super fund to divest from some resource companies.

On Tuesday, Treasurer Joe Hockey dismissed as "absolutely ridiculous" the notion that Australia
was one of the biggest emitters of greenhouse gases, per capita, in the industrialised world, a
blatantly false denial.

Meanwhile, the release of the government's new industry policy confirmed the government's faith in
extractive industries. Two of the five priority areas identified for the economy were in the resource
industry - mining equipment and oil, gas and energy resources.

And, as the government considers whether it will change the regulation mandating that Australia gets
20 per cent of its electricity from renewable sources by 2020, investment in solar, wind and
hydropower here has plummeted almost 80 per cent in the first nine months of 2014.
In contrast, global clean energy investment was $US55 billion ($62.6b) in the September quarter
alone, up 12 per cent, data from Bloomberg New Energy Finance shows.
The environmental impact of Australia's push to ensure coal-generated energy continues to
dominate is well known - increased greenhouse gas emissions that underpin global warming.
Perhaps less appreciated are the economic consequences if the faith in coal proves to be
misplaced.

As it stands, as many as half of Australia's coalmines are unprofitable.
Most continue to pump out coal because they are tied to long-term transport contracts that would
require them to pay out rail and shipping companies whether they are loading coal or not.

But, if the low prices continue and the predicted seismic shift towards renewables takes place, tens
of billions of dollars invested in the mining boom could be wasted. Entire communities could be
decimated, especially in NSW, which mostly mines thermal coal used in power stations.

According to Erwin Jackson, from the Climate Institute, government policies are "exposing
communities and industries to massive shocks in the future".
"We are seeing a myopic view of the energy system which is entirely inconsistent with that of
financial markets and policy developments in our trading partners," he says.

There are uncertainties with technologies like Tesla's lithium-ion batteries. At the moment global
investors are placing their bets firmly on clean energy.

While Tesla has come off its recent share price highs, it is by far the best performing major stock on
the US sharemarket. As of Thursday, its shares were valued at $226.35 each, up from $28 in
October 2012.

IN
NS

i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | iutil : Utilities
mcoal : Coal Markets | nedc : Commentaries/Opinions | nrvw : Reviews | m14 : Commodity Markets |
m143 : Energy Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter

Page202of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020141017eaai0003t

Page203of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.