Denham commits $130 mln to Australian mining operation

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Denham commits $130 mln to Australian mining operation

Chris Witkowsky
567 words
3 November 2014
PeHUB
PEHUB
English
Copyright 2014. . All rights reserved.

Denham Capital has committed $130 million to a newly formed venture called Auctus Minerals focused
on developing mining production projects, as well as improving operational mining assets throughout
Australia. Auctus is led by managing director Stephen Murdoch and based in Perth, Australia.

Press Release

Denham Capital, a leading resources and energy-focused global private equity firm, today announced
the backing of Auctus Minerals (Auctus) with an initial equity commitment of US$130 million. The
newly-formed venture will be based in Perth and focus on developing promising projects into production
as well as on improving the economics of operational mining assets throughout Australia.

Auctus is led by Managing Director Stephen Murdoch, a metallurgical engineer with more than 25 years
of experience in Australian resources, construction and manufacturing. As Chief Executive Officer, he
recovered, developed and brought into production the $A3.5 billion Karara Iron Ore Project for
Chinese/Australian JV. Prior to that, Murdoch turned around an $A430 million acquisition and
integration play by Cape PLC. In addition, he previously served as General Manager of metallurgical
operations for Mount Isa Mines.

“We’re delighted to partner with resources fund heavyweight Denham Capital,” said Murdoch. “Our
executive team has a highly regarded pedigree in delivering value enhancement outcomes in the
Australian resources space. Partnering with Denham, which provides deep entrepreneurial culture and
extensive knowledge of the global resources industry, has resulted in the formation of a powerful mining
endeavor in Australia.”

Murdoch is joined on Auctus’ management team by two former colleagues who have worked closely with
him in the past, Finance Director Paul Sims and Commercial Director Terry O’Connor. Sims is a highly
experienced and credentialed resources finance professional with more than 30 years experience in the
Australian resources industry. O’Connor is a mechanical engineer with more than 30 years of experience
in the Australian and international resources and manufacturing industries.

“Stephen and his team have a long and successful track record of implementing savings to operating
and development costs in both base metals as well as bulk minerals,” said Bert Koth, Managing Director
at Denham Capital and head of the Australasian region based in Perth. “During the mining boom,
Australia has become a high cost environment with productivity decline. Thus, the key to value creation
in Australian mining projects today is the ability to achieve cash flow fast and reduce cost rigorously.
Partnering with Stephen and his team will allow us to realize that opportunity.”

###

About Auctus Minerals
Auctus Minerals is a Perth-based company focused on developing promising projects into production
and improving the economics of operational mining assets throughout Australia. It targets opportunistic
projects that are either near or development-ready.

About Denham Capital

Page27of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Denham Capital is a leading energy and resources-focused global private equity firm with more than
$7.9 billion of invested and committed capital across seven fund vehicles and offices in Perth, London,
Boston, Houston and São Paulo. The firm makes direct investments in the energy and resources
sectors, including businesses involving mining, power generation and oil and gas, across the globe and
all stages of the corporate lifecycle. Denham’s investment professionals apply deep operational and
industry experience and work in partnership with management teams to achieve long-term investment
objectives. For more information about Denham Capital, visit www.denhamcapital.com.

CO
IN

NS

RE

IPD
PUB
AN

denhc : Denham Capital Management LP
i8150203 : Private Equity | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | ialtinv : Alternative Investments |
ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
c184 : Joint Ventures | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial
News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | perth : Perth | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
PE Deals
Thomson Reuters (HedgeWorld)
Document PEHUB00020141103eab300004

Page28of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.