Iron - Ore Price Helps Fortescue Speed Debt Payments -- Update

HD
BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Iron-Ore Price Helps Fortescue Speed Debt Payments -- Update

By Rhiannon Hoyle
660 words
15 January 2014
18:20
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

SYDNEY--Robust iron-ore prices are helping Australia's Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. pay down its
multibillion-dollar debt pile a lot faster than expected.
Fortescue said Wednesday it had accelerated the repayment of bonds accumulated during a
decadelong campaign to turn itself into the world's No. 4 iron-ore producer supplying China's thirst for
the steelmaking ingredient.

According to Fortescue, it will pay back US$1.64 billion in March on a pair of senior unsecured notes
due to mature over the coming two years. That follows a US$1.00 billion repayment last month, and
will chop the company's net debt down to US$7.80 billion by the end of March, compared with
US$10.53 billion on June 30.
The mining company, founded by billionaire Andrew Forrest, used large loans to build up a network
of land assets, power-and-water infrastructure, and rail-and-port facilities in the resource-rich Pilbara
region of Western Australia state.

Its massive borrowings have weighed on Fortescue's stock price, however, and forced emergency talks
with lenders to renegotiate its finances when iron-ore prices slumped in 2012.
Investors said Fortescue's decision to back away from a multibillion-dollar sale of a stake in its
port-and-rail assets last year signaled confidence in its ability to repay its debt--even as many
investment banks forecast the pace of Chinese demand for iron ore would soften.

"This debt reduction exceeded our expectations" and shows that Fortescue is well-positioned to pay
back its loans rapidly, said Chris Drew, a Sydney-based analyst at RBC Capital Markets.

Credit Suisse analyst Matt Hope said the repayments were scheduled to take place earlier than he had
anticipated too, given that Fortescue's newest operation in Pilbara, known as Kings, had only just
started producing iron ore.
Fortescue is one of a number of big mining companies prioritizing debt reduction in the face of a
cooling commodities boom that has already triggered thousands of job losses across the industry.

Last month, Rio Tinto PLC detailed plans to cut spending significantly over the next couple of
years--part of efforts to reduce debt it accumulated alongside an expansion of its own operations. The
London-based company reported net debt of US$22.1 billion as of June 30. Chief Executive Sam
Walsh said he wanted to reduce that to the "midteens."

Ratings companies have rewarded Fortescue's efforts. In November, Standard & Poor's Ratings
Services lifted the mining company's long-term corporate credit rating to BB from BB-minus. It said it
would consider increasing Fortescue's credit rating again if its debt-reduction strategy maintained a
solid pace.
The decision to pay down the bonds early will also save Fortescue about US$111 million a year in
interest payments, even though the company will spend about US$55 million on redeeming the notes,
according to RBC's Mr. Drew.

Page259of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The relatively strong performance of iron-ore prices last year has helped Fortescue take the latest
debt-reduction measures. The metal has mostly traded above $130 a metric ton since the middle of
2013, holding firm even as the value of other commodities like gold and nickel fell.
Prices plunged to less than US$90 a ton in 2012 at the height of worries that China's economy may be
headed for a hard landing. Still, the outlook for iron-ore prices this year looks less rosy, with a great
deal more supply coming onstream, slower growth expected in China, and Beijing's moves to rein in
steel production.

The benchmark price is showing signs of weakness already, dipping below US$130 a ton earlier this
week for the first time since August.

Write to Rhiannon Hoyle at rhiannon.hoyle@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

January 15, 2014 02:20 ET (07:20 GMT)

CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

ambol : Fortescue Metals Group Ltd
i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i22 : Primary Metals | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | i211 : Metal Ore Mining
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | mirono : Iron Ore Markets | ncmac : Commodities Asset Class News |
neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | ntop : Top Wire News |
nttwn : Today's Top Wire News | m14 : Commodity Markets | m142 : Metals Markets | mcat :
Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | ndj : Dow Jones Top Stories | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document DJDN000020140115ea1f000oi

Page260of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.