Mirvac buys up Altis assets

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Mirvac buys up Altis assets

BEN WILMOT, GREG BROWN, PORTFOLIOS
421 words
4 November 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
29
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

MIRVAC Group has deepened its reach into the hot industrial property market by snapping up five
properties from a portfolio offered by Altis Property Partners in a $224.1 million play.
The purchase lifts the value of Mirvac’s industrial holdings to $629.7m and signals it has serious
intentions in the sector.

While sector giant Goodman Group and a series of private players have been offloading industrial
properties, heavyweights Stockland and Charter Hall and offshore-backed Logos Property have been
bulking up.
Mirvac managing director Susan Lloyd-Hurwitz said the purchase raised the group’s exposure to the
industrial sector to 9 per cent of its portfolio. She added that the properties would offer an initial yield of
7 per cent.

“With the Altis portfolio predominantly situated in Sydney, we are pleased to bolster our industrial
position in this competitive market, and over 90 per cent of our industrial portfolio is now weighted
towards Sydney as a result of this transaction,” Ms Lloyd-Hurwitz said.
The portfolio being sold, Altis Real EstateEquity Partnership Fund No 1, spanned about nine properties
in total, with the portfolio campaign led by Colliers Of the five properties bought by Mirvac, the most
prominent is a 36,847sq m facility at St Leonards, on Sydney’s north shore, for $150m, which has long-
term residential potential. Three are in Sydney and one in Adelaide.
A Victorian asset sold early in the campaign and remaining assets are being carved up. A private
group is running the ruler over 2 Elizabeth Plaza, a $50m North Sydney tower.
Two other properties, one in Sydney’s NorwestBusiness Park, and the other a bulky good centre, are in
due diligence.

Gavin Bishop and Roger Miller of Colliers International handled the portfolio, which was pitched as the
largest in the industrial arena for five years.

Mr Bishop said interest had been exceptional. “With a strong offering of high-quality industrial and
warehouse assets, institutional investors were drawn to the strong tenant covenants combined with the
development upside many of these assets offered.” Interest came from Singapore and Hong Kong and
Mr Miller said A-REITs also chased the portfolio, which had been built up by Altis over the past four
years.CBRE’s Angus Klem, who was involved in the St Leonards deal with colleagues Matthew
Ramsay and Matthew Lee, said industrial assets with residential upside “are the hottest ticket in town,
especially those that offer an existing income”.

CO

magmgp : Goodman Group | mirva : Mirvac Group

Page236of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150206 : Investment Trusts/Funds | i815020602 : Real
Estate Investment Trusts | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ifinal :
Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities | ireest : Real Estate
c182 : Asset Transactions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141103eab400028

Page237of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.