Shanghai investors find kangas, koalas and real estate true-blue temptations

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Shanghai investors find kangas, koalas and real estate true-blue temptations

Michael Sainsbury and Nathan Mawby
693 words
16 March 2014
Herald-Sun
HERSUN
HeraldSun
15
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

IN the heart of Shanghai’s bustling central shopping district on Friday, thousands of locals poured
into the Shanghai Exhibition Centre.
Their mission: to find a property in Melbourne to sink their cash into. More than 20 Australian
developers and real estate agencies are spending this weekend touting Aussie property to wealthy
Chinese investors at a Shanghai real estate expo.

For many of the middle-class Chinese quizzing agents at the three-day Shanghai Property &
Investment Immigration Show, a one-bedroom apartment or even a multi-million-dollar freestanding
house in Melbourne and Sydney was at the top of their shopping list.
Before the end of the month another event, the 2014 Overseas Property, Immigration and High-end
Lifestyle Exhibition, will be held in Beijing with up to 80,000 prospective investors expected to attend.

People were interested in properties ranging from a one-bedroom Docklands apartments to houses
in leafy Kew and Toorak.
Jamie Sun, an agent for a Melbourne-based property group, was handing out glossy brochures at
one of the most popular pavilions.
His company was one of a dozen clustered together in the Australian pavilion decked out in Aussie
flags and giant posters of gleaming residential apartment blocks in our major capital cities.
Many of the staff spruiking Aussie property had, like many of the buyers, never set foot Down Under
but were wooed by people dressed in kangaroo suits and with “Australian snacks’’.

“We hope to sell 20-30 properties this weekend,” he told the Sunday Herald Sun. Organisers have
forecast that 100,000 people will visit the exhibition this weekend.
John Meng, director of LJ Hooker City Residential in Melbourne, said his firm was marketing about
10 projects at this weekend’s Shanghai expo and expected many buyers would be parents looking
for somewhere their children could stay.
“Most of them (students), their parents buy them (apartments) because the prices are very
reasonable compared to rent,” Mr Meng said.
Many of the prospective Australian landowners were middle-class mums keen to purchase a
property for what is usually their precious only child, one of 250,000 Chinese students studying at
Australian universities and collages across the country or who have finished their courses and are
now working here.

Page53of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Shanghai resident Madame Fu already has Australian citizenship. “I want a new apartment for my
son, he is 30 and lives in Melbourne. He already has a small apartment in Melbourne but I am look
for a slightly bigger apartment so when gets married there is somewhere for me to stay, ” she said.
Melbourne’s Monash and Swinburne universities are among the most popular in the city for Chinese
to get their first or second degree and like Ms Fu’s son, keen to stay on and work in Australia.

“Most buyers are simply keen to protect their future and Australia is a dream destination as place
with a clean air, a stable economy and a proven investment environment,” said Marc de Boosmith, a
veteran of the Chinese property sector who was attending the show to check out the competition.
He will soon open Raine & Horne’s first Chinese offices in Beijing and Shanghai. The company will
join LJ Hooker, Belle Property, Ray White and McGrath’s as local real estate chains with Chinese
shopfronts.

“Many of the buyers’ focus is on English-speaking countries with good universities for people with
kids,” he said.
There are few concerns among prospective buyers over any changes in Australia property
purchasing rules.

“We are not worried about government policies. The Australian Government is very stable, the rules
are black and white about what you can and can’t do,” said Ashley Shi, a property consultant with
PBG Property Group at the show.

While Ms Shi says that most are first-time buyers who have scrimped and saved for this investment,
some like 38-year-old Jennifer are adding to their property portfolios.
“I already have an apartment in New Zealand. I have visited Australia and I like it, ” she said.

with Jonathan Browning

IN
NS
RE

PUB
AN

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
c315 : Conferences/Exhibitions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | china : China | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | shahai : Shanghai |
apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz :
Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz :
Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document HERSUN0020150225ea3g00038

Page54of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.