Huge deal ends fear about CITIC albatross

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Huge deal ends fear about CITIC albatross

Nick Evans
433 words
28 March 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
Second
73
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

CITIC Pacific has stunned the market by proposing a $US36 billion ($38.9 billion) injection of assets
from its Chinese state-owned parent, a move that should dispel lingering doubts losses from CITIC’s
$US10 billion Sino Iron magnetite project in the Pilbara could prove its undoing.
The proposed asset acquisition, which would transform CITIC into the biggest sharemarket-listed
proxy for Chinese growth, also underlines comments made by its president Zhang Jijing about his
desire to complete Sino Iron’s troubled construction by 2016 and even consider expanding its
magnetite footprint in WA.

Mr Zhang said his company’s priority remained completing the last four magnetite production lines at
the Cape Preston operation and fixing Sino Iron’s ongoing operational problems.
But Mr Zhang, speaking to WestBusiness in Hong Kong this week ahead of CITIC announcing its
transformational deal, said CITIC had an eye on WA expansion through the potential roll-up of other
stalled Chinese-owned magnetite projects. He said CITIC’s experience over the past six years in
developing the project positioned it to develop other WA magnetite mines.

“We are looking for other business, but our top priority is this project,” he said. “We know quite a few
other Chinese companies have deposits in WA. We don’t think they are able to develop them. If they
are available after we get this project up, we will consider some kind of consolidation.
“MCC have a deposit, Chongqing (Iron and Steel) have a deposit, Sinosteel (Midwest) have a deposit
— there are quite a few.”
Mr Zhang’s comments come as he prepares for CITIC’s transformation from a company dominated
by its Sino Iron mine and steel works in China to a sprawling industrial conglomerate with major
stakes or full ownership of assets including CITIC Bank, one of China’s biggest commercial lenders,
heavy industries, construction and real estate vehicles.

The deal would also include CITIC Resources, which has a substantial Australian presence.

The massive asset injection removes any lingering doubts over CITIC Pacific’s capacity to complete
Sino Iron, where $US10 billion has already been spent and only one of six production lines is
operating.

CITIC Pacific is carrying a big debt to pay for its construction costs and warned shareholders earlier
this year to expect big writedowns. Work has begun on the last four production lines at Sino Iron and
Mr Zhang said CITIC Pacific expected the softening WA construction market would help keep building
costs down. It expected all six lines to be fully operational by 2016.

CO
IN

skfdev : CITIC Pacific Limited
i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services

Page165of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS
RE
PUB
AN

ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document TWAU000020140327ea3s0000b

Page166of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.