Windows of opportunity for Australian agribusiness investment

Hazel Brasington

HD Windows of opportunity for Australian agribusiness investment
BY
WC 1,487 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

15 December 2014
Mondaq Business Briefing
BBPUB
English
(c) 2014 Mondaq Ltd

TD

The recently published Innovation & Competitiveness Agenda sets out the Australian federal
government's plans to make food and agribusiness a priority sector in Australia. The Agenda sends a
positive message to foreign investors: it stresses the government's commitment to developing the
agribusiness sector and making it easier for significant investments to proceed. This is important for
Australia to attract the billions of dollars worth of capital needed to upgrade ageing silos, repair fragile rail
networks and relieve rail and port bottlenecks. All of these reduce returns on agricultural production and
inhibit industry expansion to meet the projected growth in Asian food demand.

In response to the release of the Agenda, Norton Rose Fulbright convened an industry roundtable in
Melbourne. The meeting highlighted where many potential windows of opportunity within Australian
agribusiness lie and indicated the following insights:

Investors will not forget about ADM's failed takeover of Graincorp Ltd any time soon and there are still
uncertainties about current Foreign Investment Review Board requirements. At the same time, market
commentators are not sensing any reduction in the level of interest in Australian agribusiness and port
infrastructure. Foreign investment continues apace, as illustrated by recent reports of Chinese interests
being close to sealing a deal to acquire 50 dairy farms in the south west part of the state of Victoria with
plans to construct two processing plants to integrate with these acquisitions. While some believe that the
risk in this area is overstated, clearer communication on the proposed application of the national interest
test would help reduce the perceived risk for investors entering the Australian market, and would also be
in line with the government's agenda to improve the speed and consistency of regulatory approvals (see
Michael Wilton's article An update on Foreign Direct Investment in Australia for the latest developments in
this area).

Private capital is finding new funding vehicles to address small farm undercapitalisation and
intergenerational succession. Without such initiatives, the age profile of the rural sector threatens to
remove a significant percentage of land from agricultural production within the next five to ten years.
Investment funds instead hold out the prospect of continuing – and possibly even more efficient –
production than is currently the case in Australia's subsidy-free farming sector. Norton Rose Fulbright is
seeing (and advising on) the establishment of a number of new funds with capital sourced predominantly
from offshore investors, typically from Europe and North America.

Further investment in infrastructure for the agricultural sector is sorely needed. Clients in the Australian
food and agribusiness sectors have stated very clearly that the best thing the government can do for the
industry will be to fix rail and port infrastructure impediments and access to markets.

Reversing the effect of long term underinvestment in rail is firmly in the camp of government, as is the
kind of new water storage and irrigation investment flagged in an agricultural competitiveness government
green paper released on October 20, 2015. A record A$10.8 billion investment in Victoria's freight
network has been proposed, with particular attention to regional corridors to port from productive regions
such as Mildura and Horsham. There is pressure on governments to move heavy traffic off roads, which
will continue to incentivise rail rationalisation. This could deliver the kind of cost efficiencies that are
enjoyed in Canada, where there is a reliable long distance rail service as well as a variety of elevation
services providers at port. In Australia, by contrast, different gauge rail tracks still operate in the adjacent
states of Victoria and New South Wales.

Page168of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Prospective privatisation of stateowned port assets in the next 12 to 18 months could provide the revenue
to enable state governments to finally address the 'big ticket' costs involved in an overhaul of rail
infrastructure, particularly if there is co-funding from federal government.

It would be a significant win for Australia's agriculture sector if the public and private sectors align in a
window of opportunity to address the challenges of a long legacy of poor infrastructure investment.

Take as a case study the Quattro port terminal joint venture at Port Kembla, which leverages private
investment together with government-led rail network improvements to deliver choice, competition and
better use of port land and facilities that will benefit exporters. In isolation from each other, neither
government initiatives nor the private sector would unlock the same value.

Another approach the Australian government could explore is a co-investment model, based on the US
government's recent Rural Infrastructure Opportunity Fund. Under this model, the US Federal
Government has established and seedfunded a rural infrastructure fund that is using sophisticated
infrastructure advisors to match rural infrastructure opportunities with suitable investors, with public
money deployed alongside private investment where appropriate. The Australian government could
consider exploring a similar model with co-investment used to improve the return profile where required to
stimulate the required investment.

Higher up the supply chain other investors are looking at country storage sites and their connectivity with
transport links. Here there are opportunities for traders wishing to ensure they are able to acquire the
season's best commodity and sell it at their preferred time. Furthermore, such facilities offer a means to
manage and control the pipeline to port which currently exacts a higher cost per tonne in Australia than in
almost any other country worldwide.

Climactic factors are never far from mind in Australia, but even the memory of double drought years, such
as those that occurred in 2007 and 2008, does not seem to cool the current enthusiasm to acquire grain
storage and handling assets. This may reflect the nature of the acquirers, multinational traders looking to
diversify their supply sources and investors looking for long-term security of supply, and so accepting of
some cyclical climatic risk.

On-farm silos continue to be built apace, as a means for growers to protect their crop and choose when to
deliver it. For growers who are not served well by rail, or who are penalised by seasonal surges in the
cost of trucking services, on-farm storage is the preferred choice. While this practice may not be optimal
supplychain practice, large growers feel that they have no choice but to make these investments. Smaller
growers are even forming cooperatives to build silos where they cannot finance construction themselves.

Ports in private operation are likely to benefit from having more than one grain elevation operator in their
precincts, as this tends to drive high customer service standards and a robust revenue stream to the port
owner. A spin off from the forthcoming wave of port sales could be to challenge the existing yield from
land and facilities at ports as well as to promote changes designed to optimise it. If strategic investment
value lies in controlling an entire supply chain from region to port, this could value certain advantageously
located land and infrastructure at a premium.

Competition issues beset supply chain and port operations for bulk grain in Australia.

In reality the export grain season comes with a seasonal high demand peak of between two and four
months, which is counter to the Northern hemisphere so that multinational traders' strategy is focussed on
improved assurance that their ships will be loaded in that peak period.

It now seems clear that neither the current practice of auctioning vessel loading slots nor the much touted
long-term 'take or pay' agreements between traders and port facilities hold out any real hope of reducing
Australian port elevation costs in line with global benchmarks. Looking to the hard commodities sector for
a comparison, the Hunter Valley Coal Chain introduced a form of cooperative management of the rail
supply chain which revolutionised coal throughput at port. However such a model would be difficult to
transfer to the soft commodities sector as it is likely to trigger concerns about preserving traders'
commercial confidentiality. That said, some form of collective activity, perhaps with an intermediated
operator (along the lines of the Quattro JV), could be the future of infrastructure ownership for the sector.

In the next issue of Cultivate we will analyse the effect of the Competition and Consumer (Industry
Code-Port Terminal Access (Bulk Wheat)) Regulation 2014 (Code of Conduct) in force from September,
30 2014. The dynamics set up by the Code of Conduct are starkly different in the various regions of
Australia, but the code has set the context Australiawide for what is likely to be a next wave of strategic
joint ventures and acquisitions in the supply chain to port.

Ms Hazel Brasington

Page169of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Norton Rose Fulbright Australia

Level 18

Grosvenor Place

225 George St

Sydney

2000

AUSTRALIA

Tel: 29330 8000

Fax: 293308000

E-mail: Alex.boxsell@nortonrosefulbright.com

URL: www.nortonrosefulbright.com/

Click Here for related articles

(c) Mondaq Ltd, 2014 - Tel. +44 (0)20 8544 8300 - http://www.mondaq.com

nortrb : Norton Rose Fulbright LLP
i835 : Legal Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c23 : Research/Development
austr : Australia | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

CO
IN
NS
RE
IPD Government
PUB Mondaq Limited
AN

Document BBPUB00020141215eacf000bz

Page170of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.