Free trade deal a game-changer

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Free trade deal a game-changer

Wang Hui
856 words
19 November 2014
China Daily
CHNDLY
8
English
Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Company. All rights reserved.

Agreement between China and Australia would tap potential of complementary economies and
promote Asia-Pacific integration
Among the series of agreements China and Australia reached on Monday to deepen bilateral ties, the
two sides' announcement that they have practically completed negotiations on a free trade agreement
heralds a big boost to the two economies and the Asia-Pacific region at large.

There have been signs in the past months that the two countries have been quickening their FTA
negotiations. Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott has said on several occasions this year his country
expects to sign an FTA with China by the end of the year and high-ranking Chinese officials have
welcomed his remarks.

The much-expected announcement made during President Xi Jinping's ongoing visit to Australia shows
the two countries' strong commitment to lifting their trade cooperation to an even higher level. It also
shows nine years of marathon talks on a bilateral FTA, which have been full of twists and turns, are
finally about to pay off.

Concluding their negotiations means the two sides can officially tie the knot; in all probability there will
be an official inauguration before the end of the year.

And analysts in both countries are predicting their FTA will produce win-win outcomes. In fact, the
media in both countries have been using words such as "milestone," "epoch-making", "landmark" and
"historic" to greet the news.
For both countries, the FTA will be a game-changer. It will be the first free trade agreement China has
signed with such a major developed country, and the Chinese economy is of unparalleled importance
to Australia.

The FTA will cover more than 10 areas, including the trade in goods and services, investment and trade
rules, as well as e-commerce and government procurement.

It will enable the two countries to complement each other's economic advantages, boost win-win
cooperation, bring mutual benefits and promote the in-depth development of bilateral economic and
trade ties, according to China's Ministry of Commerce.
The deal is reportedly worth around $18 billion. According to News Corp Australia reports, 85 percent
of all Australian exports will enter China tariff-free under the deal, while the Sydney Morning Herald
reported that tariffs for 93 percent of Australian goods exported to China will be cut to zero before 2019.
Tariffs applying to Australian coal will be exempted in two years too.

Businesses in both countries will enjoy easier access to each other's market, and people in both
countries will be able to buy the products and services from each other's country at a much lower price.
For example, Chinese consumers will be able to enjoy good-quality but cheaper Australian goods
including dairy products, wines, seafood and horticultural products.

Page271of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.China is forging ahead with broader and deeper reforms, and its economic development has been
shifting from an investment-driven model to a consumption-driven one. It is also optimizing its energy
consumption structure. As a result, demand for Australian energy and mineral resources has been
decreasing, which has created a lot of concern in Australia.
Australia, for its part, is eyeing for a transition from a reliance on exports of minerals such as coal and
iron ore to expanding its food and agricultural exports to a growing Asian middle class, moving from a
"mining boom" to a "dining boom".

Hence, an FTA is a natural choice as well as good opportunity for Beijing and Canberra to adjust their
trade structure and open up new horizons for bilateral trade to continue to prosper. A change from the
past resource-heavy pattern of bilateral trade will inject vitality in bilateral trade in a host of other areas
such as agriculture and animal husbandry.

From a regional perspective, the game-changing FTA process will have a far-reaching influence on
regional economic development, and it will promote Asia-Pacific regional integration and galvanize the
global recovery.
A successful conclusion to the China-ASEAN FTA negotiations promises a bright future for
China-Australia relations.
The ASEAN-China Free Trade Area, launched on Jan 1, 2010, is a free trade agreement between
China and the 10 member states of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations. ASEAN statistics
indicate the two-way trade volume reached $350.5 billion in 2013, accounting for 14 percent of
ASEAN's total trade and representing an increase of 9.7 percent year-on-year. Both sides have vowed
to upgrade the ACFTA by the end of 2015.

Beijing hopes the FTA arrangements will play a positive role in fostering a just international and regional
trade order.

As Australia has shown a growing interest in strengthening its interaction with the Asia-Pacific region,
the China-Australia FTA also represents a significant step forward for it in that direction.
As more and more players in the region are strengthening their bonds with one another for closer and
reciprocal trade ties, common development and prosperity for the region will not remain a faraway
dream.
The author is a senior writer with China Daily. wanghui@chinadaily.com.cn

NS

RE

PUB
AN

e512 : Physical Trade | gdip : International Relations | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic
News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
China Daily Information Company
Document CHNDLY0020141119eabj0000k

Search Summary

Text

((chin* or hong kong)) and (
( (residential or site or commercial) and (casino resort or island or hotel or apartment
or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company or board or entitys) and
(transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) )
or
( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron or lead
or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or stake or
equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or firm or
company))
or
( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or equity
or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group or firm or
board) and (million* or billion* or B or M))
)
not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall Street
or Forex or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex)
and re=austr

Page272of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found
Timestamp

01/09/2014 to 31/12/2014
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
2,847
28 August 2018 22:57

Page273of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.