Perich woos partners for farm investment

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Perich woos partners for farm investment

DAMON KITNEY, GREG BROWN, INVESTMENT
867 words
19 November 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
21
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Perich woos partners for new farm investment Up to $500m is to be spent on the agricultural sector
AS the billionaire Perich family’s King Air Turboprop did a quiet whistlestop tour of NSW and Victoria
last week, very few knew that on board it carried one of the richest men in China.

Liu Yonghao, chairman of the agricultural industry giant New Hope Group, had joined Tony Perich and
his brother Ron for a quick tour of the Perich family’s farms, milk factories and shopping centres
ahead of signing a landmark deal that could help transform the Victorian dairy industry.
On Monday evening at Parliament House in Canberra, the listed Freedom Foods Group and its
controlling shareholder, the Perich Group, struck a deal with New Hope Group under which tens of
millions of dollars will be invested in Australian dairy farms.
For Tony Perich, the deal shows that Australian agricultural companies can do deals with Chinese
investors that retain Australian management and, most importantly, Australian ownership of farming
assets.
“This shows we aren’t selling the farm. The Chinese are investing in with us and we are doing this as
a joint venture. We don’t want to be selling the farm,’’ Mr Perich told The Australian yesterday.

Mr Perich said he and his brother, along with Freedom chief executive Rory Macleod, had struck up a
good rapport with Mr Liu during several visits to China.
The Perich brothers plan to return to China next March to get a more detailed tour of New Hope’s
businesses.

“He loves the concept of two families working together,’’ Mr Perich said of Mr Liu. He believes in the
concept of hard work.’’ In August, Freedom’s Pactum Dairy Group announced a strategic supply
agreement with New Hope for the manufacture of high- value-added dairy beverages for key
customers in China and Southeast Asia.
Now New Hope has established an investment fund of up to $500 million to be spent on Australian
agriculture.

Part of these funds, along with money from the Perich family, will be invested in new large-scale
intensive dairy farms in Victoria to bolster long-term dairy milk supply.
The farms will supply Freedom Foods Group’s UHT operations and other potential processing
operations in Australia, including fresh milk.
Freedom Foods Group will have a strategic investment in the farm investment vehicle while the
management of the farm operations will be undertaken by the Perich Group through a separate farm
management services agreement.

Page14of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.It is expected that the partners will spend more than $50m over the next three to five years investing in
greenfield and brownfield farming assets.

Mr Perich said there was capacity for the funds invested to be as much as $100m, “but it depends
what is needed’’.

“We won’t go over that number,’’ he said.
The Perich Group has a 60 per cent stake in Freedom Foods and runs one of the nation’s biggest
dairies west of Sydney.

Mr Macleod said yesterday said the partners had a “five- to 10- year vision’’ and were open to
establishing more greenfields farms over time.

“It is a strong partnership with the capacity to build upon the relationship that we have.’’ Mr Mcleod
said Freedom and New Hope had also agreed to work together on a business plan to take existing
and or new products from the Freedom Foods portfolio for sale in China.

He said the focus could be on snacking and oat-based products. News of the Freedom-New Hope
deal comes as other major Chinese property players are eyeing an entry into local agriculture to
diversify their investments ahead of the completion of the free trade agreement.
The biggest Chinese property player in the Australian market, the state-owned Greenland Holding
Group, revealed yesterday that it would buy Australian beef, dairy and wine companies for export to
mainland China in what could be one of the largest forays into the local agriculture sector.
Greenland’s Shanghai-based global chairman Zhang Yuliang said the company was in negotiations to
buy local agricultural companies and aimed to get a foothold in the market in the next six months.
“China is a very big (food) market and people’s consumption habits are upgrading and changing so
our next step is to acquire such kind of Australian companies,” Mr Zhang said.

“The speed of the growth in our investment in the speed of food and agriculture products will grow very
rapidly.” Greenland has made a major entry into the Australian property market in the past 18 months,
investing in about $1.4 billion worth of projects in Sydney and Melbourne.
It is understood that Hong Kong-listed property giant Country Garden, which is in negotiations to
buyHarry Triguboff’s Meriton Apartments, also aims to enter the sector. Country Garden declined to
comment.Also yesterday New Zealand-listed A2 Milk Company, which is 18 per cent owned by
Freedom, confirmed it was seeking a dual-listing on the Australian Securities Exchange in a bid to
open up the company’s register to Australian investors and boost the liquidity of its shares.

CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

ausnfh : Freedom Foods Group Limited
i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i010010502 : Dairy Cattle Farming | i05 : Support Activities for
Agriculture | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i0 : Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | i0100105 : Cattle
Farming | i413 : Dairy Products | icnp : Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products | ilsfarm : Livestock
Farming | ifunfod : Functional Foods
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | reqrfb : Suggested Reading Food/Beverages/Tobacco | redit :
Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | china : China | nswals : New South Wales | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia
Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China |
devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141118eabj0002o

Page15of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.