HEALTHY RETAIL INTEREST

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
HEALTHY RETAIL INTEREST

QUENTIN TOD
429 words
15 December 2014
Gold Coast Bulletin
GCBULL
GoldCoast
42
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Westfield has taken an interest in the former Gold Coast Hospital site, with its unlimited height limit
and multiple street frontages, but Gordon Fu might not be too pleased

AUSTRALIA Fair beware: Westfield shopping trolleys could be headed for Southport.

Westfield, an international giant among shopping centre operators, is believed to have cast a retail
eye over the site of the former Gold Coast Hospital.

That news might not be music to the ears of Australia Fair owner Gordon Fu and it might not quite fit
the script that politician Rob Molhoek has in mind for the 3.5ha site.

The Southport MP said in July that the land was too valuable to be used for something like a
shopping centre.
“No one is going to pay $80 million for the land then put a shopping centre on it,” he said.
Westfield has a major presence on the Gold Coast in the form of the Helensvale centre.
And it intends building a shopping centre at Coomera in tandem with QIC. It sold its stake in Pacific
Fair to AMP in 2012, with the insurance giant flagging at the time that residential towers could be a
proposition at the landmark centre down the track.
The Southport hospital site, which is being cleared, has an unlimited height limit, which implies a
shopping centre with a residential component cannot be ruled out.
A big thing in the site’s favour is that it has multiple street frontages. Should Westfield emerge as
buyer of the land, Southport would be in for an enormous shot in the arm.
It’s one that the well-heeled Mr Fu, who paid $161.5 million for Australia Fair 13 years ago, might
find discomforting.
He could be forced to speed up an upgrade of the centre and to firm up mooted plans for a
residential tower above it.

Then again, he might find it viable to knock down all, or part, of it and start again.

Some of the best Broadwater views in town are to be had from its carpark. The redevelopment of
Australia Fair West, on the western side of Scarborough St, might also be hastened.
That two-level property, built by Pat Zarro in 1983, is intended to be a cornerstone of the city’s
Chinatown.

Page185of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.At the end of the day, the State Government will determine whether it’s Westfield or someone else
who buys the hospital site.It might side with Mr Molhoek and decide a Westfield-type buyer is not
quite what the doctor ordered.

CO
IN
NS
RE
PUB
AN

westgp : Westfield Group | tthvdt : Scentre Group Ltd
icre : Real Estate/Construction | ireest : Real Estate
gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document GCBULL0020141215eacf00014

Page186of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.