There are big bets being placed each way on the future of coal

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News - Opinion
There are big bets being placed each way on the future of coal

Tony Wood
857 words
21 November 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
39
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Carbon policy There is plenty of life left in coal. But its long term future will ironically depend on putting a
strong price on carbon. Tony Wood
Tony Abbott is half right. Coal has been good for Australia and for humanity. Since the early 19th
century, energy from burning fossil fuels has enabled humans to break the bonds imposed by the
muscles of man and beast. Even today, coal still looks like the best bet for the many millions of people
who simply do not have access to the affordable energy that underpins our economic prosperity.

Yet the mining and burning of coal has caused much pollution and many premature deaths over the
past couple of centuries. Above all, the ongoing burning of fossil fuels is incompatible with reining in
climate change. We are stuck.
The latest forecast to 2040 by the International Energy Agency indicates that while growth in energy
consumption in much of Europe, North America, Japan and Korea will be flat, consumption will rise in
other places, including the rest of Asia. The forecasts show global coal demand will grow by 15 per cent,
although two-thirds of that growth will occur over the next 10 years.
Growth in coal use is slowing, but from a historically high base. Global coal use between 2000 and 2010
grew by more than 50 per cent, nearly as much as aggregate growth from all other energy sources. The
main cause was the extraordinary growth in Chinese consumption over the first decade of this century.
On these figures, the coal supertanker still has lots of momentum.
Yet coal now presents a huge challenge to our society and economy. Burning coal to deliver reliable
and affordable electricity has been achieved at a cost that we have not recognised financially. Markets
are not good at recognising environmental costs. The result is a large and growing subsidy from future
generations to our own.

In the past two weeks we have seen some significant and sometimes conflicting announcements. The
historic deal reached by the leaders of China and the US to reduce their carbon emissions throws down
a gauntlet to the rest of the world. Yet at the same time, the free trade deal between these countries will
lift the recently imposed import restriction on non-coking coal after two years. India will grow as a major
coal consumer. The Queensland government will bankroll infrastructure for big coalmines in the Galilee
Basin. Big bets are being placed in both directions.
Governments are not about to abandon coal, and they will be urged on by large resource-based vested
interests. Yet the conundrum remains. Based on the best scientific advice, the world's governments have
committed to limiting the long-term global average temperature increase to 2 degrees centigrade. Even
the scaled-back forecasts of the IEA for growth in coal demand are incompatible with meeting that
objective.

Page68of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.How can we deny the world's poorest people access to the low-cost energy that fuelled our own
economic prosperity? Surely coal must continue to be a major energy source for many decades? Yet
how can we sentence the global community to the results of unmitigated climate change?

For now there is only one way to resolve the impasse. In the words of a 2007 report co-authored by
Ernest Moniz, the current US Secretary of Energy: "CO2 capture and sequestration (CCS) is the critical
enabling technology that would reduce CO2 emissions significantly while allowing coal to meet the
world's pressing energy needs."

There are many strong arguments raised against CCS. It is unproven, too expensive, and simply delays
the inevitable transition from fossil fuel combustion. Its supporters argue that it will be no more expensive
than solar or offshore wind-power. Yet development of CCS at the scale needed to prevent runaway
climate change is daunting and progress is excruciatingly slow. The first integrated CCS project on a
power station was unveiled only a few weeks ago in Canada.It is simply unclear which side of the
argument will prevail. The problem is that, like all low-emission technologies, CCS needs government
support and clear long-term climate change policy direction, and that exists nowhere. In many countries,
including Australia, the fossil-fuel industry has raised the loudest voices against the introduction of
emissions constraints. It is therefore encouraging that the heads of both BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto made
positive responses to the China-US announcement. Both companies have also pointed to the need for
clear direction on climate policy and the role that CCS can play in a low-carbon future.
The logic should be clear and inescapable. There is no long-term future for coal without CCS, yet there
will be no CCS without a strong price on carbon. When the coal industry itself embraces this reality, then
we might be at the beginning of a real journey towards a sustainable energy future in which the
conundrum of coal is finally resolved.
Tony Wood is energy program director at the Grattan Institute.

CO
NS

RE
PUB
AN

inenag : International Energy Agency
gclimt : Climate Change | gglobe : Global/World Issues | nedc : Commentaries/Opinions | gcat :
Political/General News | genv : Environmental News | gwea : Weather | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141120eabl0000q

Page69of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.