Weekly news through July 11

The Week in Asian Real Estate; Exclusive

SE
HD Weekly news through July 11
BY Megan Zhao
WC 827 words
PD
SN
SC
VOL Issue: 81326
LA
CY
LP

English
Copyright 2014. SNL Financial LC

15 July 2014
SNL Real Estate Daily: Asia-Pacific Edition
REAP

Deal of the week
Westfield spinoff Scentre Group raked in A$3.05 billion in what has been tapped as one of the largest
European debt deals by an Australian firm ever.

TD

Scentre launched its road show June 30, drawing substantial interest from offshore investors amid a
favorable interest rate environment. Demand drove pricing lower, with all four tranches priced at the tight
end of revised guidance, with the euro notes priced at 67, 72 and 92 basis points over midswap and the
sterling notes priced at 113 basis points over gilts, the Sydney Morning Herald reported, citing the
managing director of capital markets at BNP Paribas, which advised on the deal along with Deutsche
Bank, with assistance from HSBC and Barclays plus a syndicate of another 13 banks.
The Australian Financial Review noted that Scentre Group is now the highest-rated REIT in the world,
with an A rating from S&P and an A1 from Moody's.
The company will use some proceeds to help refinance the A$5 billion bridge facility it took on as part of
the Westfield Group restructuring. The success of the bond deal may now relieve some of the pressure
on Scentre to sell assets and bring down gearing, the AFR noted.

The bond issuance also carries implications for the Australian market and the macro environment. The
Australian Financial Review columnist Tony Boyd noted that the deal underscores that it is now cheaper
for companies to borrow in the euro markets than in the U.S. and that offshore capital markets offer
Australian firms the chance to lock in the cheapest long-term debt funding in more than six years.
Meanwhile, analysts at Moelis Australia think sister companyWestfield Corp. Ltd. could be a takeover
target ahead of its expected listing in New York, given its smaller size, geographic concentration and
higher percentage of trophy malls than predecessor Westfield Group, The Australian reported. American
mall giants Simon Property Group Inc. and Taubman Centers Inc. are tipped to be potential suitors for
the company.

Expanding horizons

* Speak of Taubman, the U.S. mall REIT is mulling an expansion in the Far East. Taubman Asia has set
aside $600 million for projects in Asia, with 40% of the money committed for joint ventures in China, the
South China Morning Post reported, citing an interview with Rene Tremblay, president of Taubman Asia.

It has joined forces with Beijing Wangfujing Department Store, the country's largest department store
operator, to invest about $230 million in two shopping centers in Xi'an, Shaanxi province, and
Zhengzhou, Henan province.

Seoul is also on Taubman's radar as part of a joint venture with Korean department store conglomerate
Shinsegae.
Tremblay told the Post that Taubman likes China and South Korea "for their long-term potential."

Page5of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.* Singapore's Ascott Residence Trust agreed to acquire its first serviced residence in Kuala Lumpur, as
well as properties in the Chinese cities of Wuhan and Xi'an, for an aggregate purchase price of $131.6
million.
The acquisition will enlarge Ascott's portfolio to 9,985 units in 86 properties in 36 cities across 13
countries.

Other activity

* The Queensland, Australia, government approved Grocon's plans for a 2018 Commonwealth Games
athletes' village on the Gold Coast. Construction on the A$500 million project is slated to take place early
in 2015.
* Lend Lease Corp. Ltd. will start work on the first stages of its delayed A$1 billion Harpley master
planned residential community in Werribee, a suburb in Melbourne, in August.
* Global and local investors have earmarked over A$10 billion to buy major retail centers in Australia, the
AFR reported, citing Colliers International.

Now featured on SNL

The Eastern Front: Newly minted Jinmao's performance contradicts asset quality: Franshion Properties
(China) Ltd.'s hotel business spinoff seems to have missed a window of opportunity, industry observers
told SNL Financial.
The Eastern Front: China Vanke cuts to the chase: China Vanke Co. Ltd., the largest residential
developer on the mainland, is fighting the good fight against a slowdown in China's property market,
industry observers told SNL Financial.
Q&A: No crash yet for China (Part 1 of 2): SNL Financial talked trends with Kenneth Rhee, the Urban
Land Institute's chief representative in mainland China, following the release of the ULI's rankings for the
Chinese real estate market.
Asian property transactions to July 11: Abacus Property is undertaking due diligence on a landmark
Melbourne tower; Scentre Group's A$1 billion mall project on Australia's Gold Coast faces possible
delays; and Sun Hung Kai snares two Hong Kong residential sites for HK$4.19 billion.
Hires and Fires: European/Asian real estate moves through July 8: SNL Financial presents a weekly
rundown of recent significant management and board changes and personnel moves in the European
and Asia-Pacific real estate industries.

CO westgp : Westfield Group
IN

i815020602 : Real Estate Investment Trusts | ireest : Real Estate | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial
Vehicles | i8150206 : Investment Trusts/Funds | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ifinal : Financial Services
| iinv : Investing/Securities
c172 : Corporate Debt Instruments | c17 : Funding/Capital | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | xian : Xi'an | shaan : Shaanxi | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries |
dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

NS

RE

IPD Debt
PUB SNL Financial LC
AN

Document REAP000020140718ea7f00003

Page6of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.