MG moves on - now to milk Asia

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
MG moves on - now to milk Asia

Georgia Wilkins
489 words
24 January 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
19
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Takeovers

Murray Goulburn has made a defiant bid to take on its rivals Saputo and Bega in the new battlefield
over milk products in Asia.

The farmer-owned co-operative said on Thursday it would bow out of the long race for Warrnambool
Cheese & Butter, selling its stake to Saputo for about $93 million and officially marking the end of its
efforts to take control of the dairy producer.

But chief executive Gary Helou said he planned to use the windfall to push ahead in Asia, where
growing demand for milk products, particular infant formula, was creating a whirlwind of competition for
dairy players. "Australia has a real role to play in Asia," he said. "We are already there, we just need to
connect better."
Mr Helou used his company's withdrawal from the fight over Warrnambool to criticise what he saw as
an uneven regulatory playing field between local and foreign buyers.
He told Fairfax Media: "There's no question that the expedited [Foreign Investment Review Board]
approval gave Saputo a distinct and, in my opinion, unfair advantage."

Murray Goulburn's bid for Warrnambool was conditional on approval by the Australian Competition
Tribunal, which was due to make a decision on February 4. The FIRB granted its approval of the
Saputo bid in November. "It's disappointing that the timelines in regulatory framework weren't aligned,"
he said. "FIRB should have aligned their approval to give the local a proper contest. We were not
playing on a level playing field."

Murray Goulburn's exit from the Warrnambool race cements the control of its Canadian rival, Saputo,
over the Victorian milk producer, with its interest rising to more than 75 per cent.

Murray Goulburn will now seek approval to withdraw its bid and its application to the ACT from the
Australian Securities and Investments Commission.
Mr Helou said Murray Goulburn would use its proceeds to reinvest in the business and grow market
share in Australia and internationally.
"We have some big investment plans to upgrade our manufacturing footprint in the areas of liquid milk,
cheese and nutritional powders," he said.
"We want to take dairy foods into Asia, which is seeing huge demand, particularly in China, Japan and
south-east Asia.

"Those production lines in those markets will bode extremely well for Australian farmers."

Page10of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The sale of Murray Goulburn's 17.7 per cent stake in Warrnambool to Saputo will increase the value of
Warrnambool shares to $9.40.
Murray Goulburn will receive cash proceeds of at least $92.9 million from the sale, a gain on
investment before tax and costs of $51 million.

A Saputo spokesman declined to comment.

Canaccord Genuity analyst Mark Topy said Saputo would have to invest more in Asia to get a return on
Warrnambool, and Murray Goulburn would have to act on its strategies to woo investors.

NS

RE
PUB
AN

eppin : Producer Price Index | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1103 : Inflation/Prices | ecat :
Economic News
austr : Australia | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020140123ea1o0004a

Page11of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.