Revealed: Oakajee’s mystery backers Padbury’s white knight

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Revealed: Oakajee’s mystery backers Padbury’s white knight

Nick Evans
553 words
15 April 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
Second
1
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

The mystery financiers behind Padbury Mining’s $6.5 billion bid to resurrect the Oakajee project
were behind last year’s failed $US640 million offer to tiddler Fairstar Resources.
On a day in which Padbury Mining suspended share trading and the Australian Shareholders
Association called for an official investigation into last week’s frenzied share trading, Premier Colin
Barnett yesterday added to the drama by pouring cold water on the company’s Mid West plans.

Padbury said it would not be in a position to tell investors the identity of the mystery investors
offering to pitch in to build the Oakajee port and rail project until Thursday.

Padbury suspended share trading to push back the deadline to reveal details of its agreement and
managing director Gary Stokes, who is in Korea negotiating with engineering and procurement
contractors over the Oakajee bid, would not comment on the identities of its partners.
WestBusiness understands the mystery backers were behind an aborted “company-making” deal
with Fairstar to develop the Steeple Hill iron ore project near Kalgoorlie. It is believed the parties
behind the deal are associated with one-time Fairstar white knight Alliance Super Holdings.

Fairstar said it walked away from the deal this year after finding a better offer. At the time, a
spokesman for Alliance said Fairstar had breached a shareholder agreement to deposit its 20 per
cent of the project’s funding requirements into the bank account of a joint venture subsidiary and
Alliance had walked.

It is unclear whether Alliance is directly offering the Padbury funding package but it is understood the
offer will be made by a member of the complex web of companies that surround it.

Those are understood to include Alliance parent Superkite Pty Ltd and the Hayman Corporation
private equity group associated with one-time Australian hair-regrowth king Roland Frank Bleyer.
Mr Barnett said he had had no dealings with Padbury and he expected China’s CITIC Pacific to
emerge as the major backer of Oakajee through a deal with Japan’s Mitsubishi Corporation.

Mr Stokes, a former Department of Industry and Resources deputy director-general who in 2012 was
found guilty of disclosing official secrets after he leaked government information to former premier
Brian Burke, told WestBusiness that he was unaware of Mr Barnett’s comments.

“At the end of the day, a premier says what a premier needs to say,” Mr Stokes said. “We’re pushing
ahead to get something happening in the Mid West. At the end of the day, most of the miners just
want someone to build it.”

Padbury admitted yesterday its announcement on Friday had been queried by the corporate
watchdog as well as the ASX.

Page113of259©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.ASA spokesman Stephen Mayne called for an investigation into the situation.

Padbury shares surged from 2¢ to a high of 5.2¢ in early trading on the back of the announcement,
before the company was sent back into a trading halt ahead of further disclosures.

“We think it’s a disgraceful situation — the ASX should never have let the announcement through,”
Mr Mayne said.
“No company should be able to make such a hugely material announcement without credible
backup information, such as . . . the identity of the bidder, the institutions providing the finance.”

aurhld : Australian Shareholders&apos; Association | faiaeo : Fairstar Resources Limited | rivgol :
Padbury Mining Limited
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2112 : Gold Ore/Silver Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources |
imet : Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document TWAU000020140414ea4f0000x

CO

IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

Page114of259©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.