Africa's iron ore revolution edges nearer

Africa's iron ore revolution edges nearer

SE MINING
HD
BY M J Morgan
WC 1,253 words
PD
1 July 2014
SN
African Business
SC
AFBZ
PG 58-59
VOL Issue 410; ISSN:01413929
LA
CY
LP

English
© 2014 African Business. Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning. All Rights Reserved.

TD

Africa is currently the source of just 4-5% of the world's iron ore produc- tion but possesses reserves
substan- tially in excess of that proportion. Major projects such as Simandou in Guinea are regularly
referred to as the next Pilbara - the iron ore-rich region of Western Australia that has been the backbone
of the country's economic success.

The continent's vast deposits can enable it to play a much bigger role in this market and numerous
projects are now edging closer to production. Mauritania, Guinea, Sierra Leone, Liberia, Cameroon,
Republic of Congo, Gabon and Nigeria are all potential hot spots for the growing trade.

China imports around 80m tonnes of iron ore a month, more than two thirds of which comes from
Australia and Brazil. At present, China sources some 8% of its iron ore from Africa.
Seaborne iron ore exports are forecast to grow around 10% to 1.3bn tonnes this year, with volumes
growing around 100m tonnes this year and next - over 900m tonnes of this ore will be bought by China.
However, with China currently enduring its slowest growth in a quarter of a decade, prices have fallen.
Last year prices averaged around $135 per tonne. They are currently at $95 per tonne, up from a low of
$90, having fallen below $100 since 19th May.
Nevertheless, the first four months of the year saw China import 305m tonnes, up 21% on last year.
Chinese steel demand grew about 7-8% last year as its cities continue to grow, even as the economy as
a whole increases at a reduced rate.
The Export-Import Bank of China esti- mates that by 2025, China will have injected some $1 trillion into
Africa, as the resource hungry country seeks to ensure sustained supplied.

South Africa is forecast to export 56m tonnes this year, up 1.8% from last year. Min- ing output as a whole
declined in the country by 4.7% year on year in March with the ongo- ing platinum strike a factor.
China is South Africa's biggest trade part- ner - in 2013 bilateral trade was worth over $65bn or one
quarter of all Sino-African trade.
In general, African iron ore has the ad- vantages of high-grade deposits - particu- larly when compared
with ore from China. Additionally, Chinese pollution targets favour the imported, higher grade ore. It is
also avail- able at lower marginal cost than elsewhere (particularly compared to Australia but also to
Brazil).

Investment is hampered to some extent by the high costs of building the requisite infrastructure (very long
rail connections and deep sea ports) and the distance between the continent and key markets (US,
Eurozone and China/Asia).

The business cases pits high capital expenditure (capex) against low operating costs. Once these African
projects are over the hump, in terms of commissioning, and as- suming there is sufficient demand (likely
since present prices can fall 33% before miners start to really suffer), these projects will reshape the iron
ore market in the continent's favour.

Page92of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Prices are still well above the $20 per tonne cost of production and may actually favour African producers,
as margins elsewhere fall.

Meanwhile, Africa's share of global min- ing investment remained constant in 2013, compared with 2012,
at 14% (rising $4bn to $110bn, across 26 projects).

Mega investment deal signed
At the end of May, Guinea signed an invest- ment with Simandou stakeholders Rio Tinto, Chinalco and
the International Finance Cor- poration.

State Minister of Mines and Geology of the Republic of Guinea, Kerfalla Yansané says: "Simandou is one
of the largest and best qual- ity iron ore deposits in the world. It has the potential to provide the global
market with highly competitive ore for more than 40 years. This estimated $20bn project, aiming to de-
velop blocks 3 and 4 of Simandou along with the infrastructure, will boost Guinea's whole economy and
spur our Southern Growth Corridor through mining, agriculture, for- estry, livestock and trade. It's about
unlock- ing our huge potential, supporting our efforts to tackle poverty through jobs creation and economic
diversification, and getting more attractive to foreign direct investment".

Rio says the concession "will enable the development of the largest mine and infra- structure project ever
undertaken in Africa. This will include the progressive develop- ment of a 100m tonne per annum mine, a
650-kilometre trans-Guinean railway and a new deep-water port".
It is forecast operations will commence in five years' time and create 45,000 jobs. The necessary railway
and deep-water, multiuser port in the Forécariah prefecture needed to export the ore will account for
about two thirds of the cost. This new deal sees Guinea double its ownership share from 7.5% to 15%,
without cost, and allows the state to purchase a further 20% stake over the next 20 years. In return, Rio
will enjoy an eight-year income tax break followed by a 30% rate, with a 3.5% royalty on exports.
A separate infrastructure company, funded by investors, will own the railway and port for 30 years, after
which point it will become government property. This infrastructure, it is hoped, will aid other sectors such
as agri- culture and forestry to flourish.
The agreement also precludes iron ore exports via Liberia, using ArcelorMittal's rail- way. Sable Mining
does have a right to export via Liberia and is expected to start exporting 5m tonnes a year from 2015.

As reported in last month's African Busi- ness, the government of Guinea revoked Vale and BSGR's rights
to the northern part of Simandou on the basis of allegations of cor- ruption that are robustly denied by the
two companies. Rio forecasts iron ore output will reach 290m tonnes this year, rising to 350m tonnes in
2017 - before the addition of Simandou's 100m tonnes a year.
The Congo-Cameroon-Gabon region is the other hot spot for the development of Africa iron ore.
Sundance Resources's Mbalam- Nabeba project on the Cameroon/Congo border will require a 510km
railway and deep port, for which an infrastructure agreement was signed in June.
In 2012, Exxaro Resources (part owner of Kumba Iron Ore's Sishen mine) acquired African Iron Limited,
with iron ore assets in the Republic of Congo for $349m.

According to Glencore, cuts to capex have been focused on new projects that are (rightly in their view)
seen as high risk and impossi- ble to forecast - what capex there is, is being used to enhance existing
operations. The company sees iron ore prices declining 26% between now and 2017. In additional to
capex reductions, companies are instituting cost- cutting measures to preserve margins.
The biggest threat at the moment to the iron ore trade is a sustained fall in Chinese growth, and
excessive supply entering the market. However, prices have some space to fall before new operations
become uneconom- ic. The outlook post-2020 for iron ore demand is very good - by which time the
continent's producers should be set to capitalise on their new role at the centre of the iron ore trade.

*In other ferrous metals news, Pan Afri- can Minerals $1bn Tambao manganese mine in Burkina Faso has
been approved. It could be the largest manganese mine in the world when complete. It starts production in
July and should be ramped up over the next three years to 3m tonnes p.a.

IN

NS

i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | i224 : Non-ferrous Metals |
i231 : Non-metallic Mineral Mining/Quarrying | imet : Mining/Quarrying | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources
c41 : Management | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e512 : Physical Trade | reqrmm : Suggested
Reading Metals/Mining | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types |

Page93of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis |
reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
africaz : Africa | austr : Australia | gurep : Guinea | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
dvpcoz : Developing Economies | wafrz : West Africa

RE

IPD Magazines
PUB IC Publications France
AN

Document AFBZ000020170505ea71000l2

Page94of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.