Citic Pacific loses lawsuit against Mineralogy over port operatorship

Citic Pacific loses lawsuit against Mineralogy over port operatorship

Sheharyar Khan

HD
BY
WC 411 words
PD
SN
SC
VOL Issue: 79174
LA
CY
LP

7 February 2014
SNL Metals & Mining Daily: East Edition
SNLMMDE

English
Copyright 2014. SNL Financial LC

TD

The Federal Court of Australia has ruled in favor of Mineralogy Pty. Ltd. — dismissing a lawsuit from
CITIC Pacific Ltd. aimed at preventing Mineralogy from operating the Port of Cape Preston in Western
Australia.

According to a Feb. 6 copy of the judgment, Citic Pacific was unable to prove that a government agent
made an error in designating Mineralogy as the operator of the port or that the designation was a breach
of the rules of natural justice.

The Federal Court said that Citic Pacific did not have "a right to veto, or urge against, the designation of a
person as a port operator merely because those parties had a dispute or were, or one was, not prepared
to cooperate with the other. Those matters did not bear on Mineralogy's ability to undertake the function of
port operator."
Citic Pacific said that the ruling did not affect its operations, Bloomberg News reported Feb. 6. According
to the report, the outcome of the dispute would determine the way forward for Chinese investments in
Australia.

Both parties entered a dispute after Mineralogy, owned by Australian politician Clive Palmer, was denied
A$193.3 million in royalty payments for the 2012 to 2013 period from the Sino-Iron magnetite project in
the Pilbara region of Western Australia. The royalty payments included a component linked to commodity
prices of iron ore which CITIC Pacific alleged could not be measured owing to the absence of prevailing
iron ore prices.
Following acquisition and commencing development of the A$8 billion Sino-Iron project, CITIC Pacific
constructed the Cape Preston port. Australia's Federal Office of Transport Security then appointed
Mineralogy to oversee security. However, CITIC demanded that the Australian government justify the
decision.

Mineralogy owns the land where the port is located and sold CITIC the right to mine magnetite deposits in
the Pilbara. CITIC is concerned that Mineralogy will undermine its operations.

"Any claim that we haven't paid our fair share in accordance with agreements is just plain rubbish," CITIC
Pacific President Zhang Jijing said Feb. 6, according to a Reuters report.

In response, Mineralogy replied: "The proposition is CITIC wants to come here and suggest the main
consideration can't be calculated, yet they still want to take our resources back to China without paying
for them. In our opinion this is tantamount to stealing, and most Australians would be in agreement."

CO skfdev : CITIC Pacific Limited
IN

NS

imet : Mining/Quarrying | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies |
ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
c12 : Corporate Crime/Legal Action | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
IPD Permitting Activity

Page36of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB SNL Financial LC
AN

Document SNLMMDE020140212ea2700006

Page37of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.