Glencore, Jinchuan front runners to buy BHP's Nickel West

HD
BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Glencore, Jinchuan front runners to buy BHP's Nickel West

By Silvia Antonioli
468 words
27 August 2014
03:22
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.

LONDON, Aug 26 (Reuters) - Commodity trader and miner Glencore and Chinese nickel producer
Jinchuan Group are the front runners to buy BHP Billiton's Australian Nickel West division, a source
close to the situation said.
BHP, the world's largest mining company, announced plans last week to spin off businesses worth an
estimated $16 billion but said Nickel West in western Australia would not be part of the demerger.

Chief Executive Andrew Mackenzie has said the company was in talks with potential buyers for all or
part of Nickel West.

"It's a race between Glencore and Jinchuan now," the source with knowledge of the situation said.

Estimates of the value of Nickel West vary greatly, with some analysts and industry sources putting it
at anything up to a $1 billion and others tagging negative figures to the asset, that they say is burning
cash.
Other companies initially said to be interested in the asset were X2, a mining firm founded by former
Xstrata chief executive Mick Davis, and commodity trader Trafigura but two sources said they both lost
interest after reviewing the asset.

Glencore, X2, BHP and Trafigura declined to comment while Jinchuan was not immediately available
to comment.
CHINESE COMPETITION
London-listed Glencore completed the acquisition of its rival Xstrata a little more than a year ago.
It recently received $6.5 billion from the sale of its Peruvian copper project Las Bambas to a Chinese
consortium.
The mining company said it intended to use about a third of it for acquisitions and already has used
about $1.5 billion to buy Chad-focused oil firm Caracal.
China's Jinchuan tough, it also keen to get the asset, according to the source.
Even as demand growth has slowed in the last couple of years, China's appetite for metals, which are
strategic for its development, remains high.
The sale of Las Bambas was a condition imposed by Chinese regulators to give Glencore the
green-light for its acquisition of Xstrata, for example.
Interest in nickel projects has shot up since previously top exporter of nickel ore Indonesia introduced
a ban on exports of unprocessed nickel earlier this year to encourage investment in smelters within the
country.

Page296of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Indonesia was a key supplier to Chinese nickel pig iron producers and the ban caused a strong
increase in prices for the stainless steel ingredient, up by more than one third this year.

BHP in May started its review of Nickel West, which is made up of the Mt Keith, Cliffs and Leinster
mines, concentrators, and the 100,000 tonne-per-year Kalgoorlie smelter and the 60,000
tonne-per-year Kwinana refinery in Western Australia. (Editing by David Evans)

Released: 2014-8-26T18:22:06.000Z
bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | march : Glencore PLC | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2114 : Copper Ore/Nickel Ore Mining | imet : Mining/Quarrying | ibasicm :
Basic Materials/Resources | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer
Services
cspin : Spin-offs | c02 : Corporate Changes | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | cncc : New Companies Creation | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | cana : Canada | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific |
asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North
America
Business
SERVICE:AUF
Thomson Reuters (Markets) LLC
Document LBA0000020140826ea8q009yg

RF
CO
IN

NS

RE

IPD
IPC
PUB
AN

Page297of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.