Browse LNG Loses Only Customer

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Feature Stories
Browse LNG Loses Only Customer

635 words
3 January 2014
International Oil Daily
IOD
English
(c) 2014 Energy Intelligence Group Inc. All rights reserved.

Australia's revamped Browse floating LNG (FLNG) project has been left with no contracted buyers after
Japan Australia LNG, otherwise known as Mimi Browse, a 50-50 joint venture between Japanese trading
houses Mitsubishi and Mitsui, terminated a sales and purchase agreement for around 1.5 million tons
per year of LNG from the development.

Mimi's pullout is not seen a major setback, however, with Browse FLNG not expected to be sanctioned
before mid-2015 and the first vessel unlikely to come on stream before 2018 at the earliest. "It is
marginally disappointing ... but not worrying," Melbourne-based RBC Capital Markets analyst Andrew
Williams told International Oil Daily. "The joint venture will stagger the floaters so they will only have to
put away relatively small volumes, maybe 20%-30% [as term volumes]. Maybe the first vessel needs to
be underpinned but after that they can get much more flexibility. There will be enough spot demand."
Mimi signed the sales and purchase agreement with Woodside, which operates Browse FLNG with a
31.3% interest, in April 2012, acquiring a 14.7% stake in the project for US$2 billion at the same time
(IOD May2'12). Back then, Browse LNG was still envisaged as a conventional onshore liquefaction plant
and the deal was for long-term sales at a price "in line with traditional Asian pricing for conventional LNG
projects," Woodside had said.
But on Thursday, the Perth-based firm revealed the Mimi sales and purchase agreement had been
conditional upon a final investment decision (FID) being taken on Browse by Dec. 31, 2013 -- a clause
that had not been disclosed last year. This condition not having been satisfied, Mimi gave Woodside
notice of its termination of the agreement on Thursday.

Since Mimi bought into Browse, the project has not only failed to reach FID but has also been
transformed from a 12 million tons/yr onshore plant into a floating concept featuring up to three FLNG
vessels. 
With FLNG an untested technology, Mimi may have been unwilling to keep its purchase commitments
and even more reluctant to pay conventional LNG prices for FLNG, which -- if successful -- is expected
to cost significantly less than the Australian onshore option would have. Buyers may also expect a
discount on FLNG due to the risks associated with using the new concept. 
But Mimi, as a stakeholder, is committed to Browse and could well ultimately decide to lift its LNG equity
volumes and more, Williams noted.
It is not the first time Browse has won and lost an Asian customer. Both PetroChina and Chinese
Petroleum Corp. (Taiwan) signed key terms agreements in 2007 to lift 2 million-3 million tons/yr from
Browse LNG for 15-20 years, likely at parity to oil prices. But these deals were allowed to lapse without
being firmed up as LNG prices fell and the project failed to make progress (IOD Jun.25'12). That is not to
say Browse is unattractive to Asian LNG buyers. Like Mimi, PetroChina bought equity in the project in
December 2012, acquiring BHP Billiton's upstream interests for $1.63 billion (IOD Dec.13'12). Although
it did not sign a new key terms agreement or sales and purchase agreement when doing so, the
company is expected to take its equity LNG back to China. The existing shareholders in Browse --
Woodside, Royal Dutch Shell, whose FLNG technology will be used, BP, Mimi and PetroChina -- appear
more aligned than ever before and agreed in September to adopt floating LNG, with front-end
engineering and design (Feed) work expected to start in mid-2014 (IOD Sep.3'13). An agreement for

Page58of210©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Woodside and Mimi to jointly market commingled LNG volumes in Asia, primarily to Japanese
customers, remains in place.

Maryelle Demongeot, Singapore

CO
IN
NS

RE

mimi : Japan Australia LNG (MIMI) Pty Ltd | mtsubc : Mitsubishi Corp | mtsui : Mitsui & Co Ltd
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300004 : Liquefied/Compressed Gas
mlpg : Liquid Petroleum Gas Markets | m14 : Commodity Markets | m143 : Energy Markets | mcat :
Commodity/Financial Market News | mcrntg : Crude Oil/Natural Gas Product Markets | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter
austr : Australia | jap : Japan | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | easiaz :
Eastern Asia

PUB Energy Intelligence Group Inc.
AN

Document IOD0000020140110ea1300003

Page59of210©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.