CBD

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
CBD

Colin Kruger
905 words
17 September 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
20
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Forrests line up for uni honour

Fortescue chief Nev Power may have received an increase in base pay to $2 million as of July 1 but
there are some things that money can't buy.

His boss Andrew "Twiggy" Forrest and wife Nicola were due to line up alongside 200 graduates at the
University of Western Australia on Tuesday night to receive honorary doctorates from his alma mater.

"The Forrests have demonstrated outstanding leadership in philanthropy and community service," says
the university.

Forrest's leadership has included pledging $50 million to fund scholarships and postdoctoral
fellowships across all five WA universities. Another $15 million is being provided to build a residential
college at UWA. Funnily enough, it will be called Forrest Hall.

Rinehart homage

Speaking of mining billionaires.

CBD believes you can never be too glowing about the boss - especially when the boss in question is
Gina Rinehart.

The ABC's Perth radio station 720 cornered the head of Rinehart's Roy Hill mine Barry Fitzgerald last
week after a business lunch.

Fitzgerald obviously kept his wits about him when asked whether he enjoys working with his chairman.

"What a strange question," he said with a laugh.
He went on to say Rinehart has been a key driver behind the company strategy to introduce
autonomous trucks and trains at the mine, which CBD interprets as a hint that she knows how to
dispense with the hired help, if needed.

Fitzgerald: The chairman has been incredibly supportive, incredibly powerful driver.

Reporter: And on a personal note?

Fitzgerald: I actually enjoy working for the chairman enormously.

As Rinehart is the largest shareholder of our employer Fairfax Media your columnist couldn't agree
with Fitzgerald more.

Mystery move

Page155of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Some market intrigue was provided on Tuesday by the sudden resignation from insurer IAG of Nora
Scheinkestel. She advised chairman Brian Schwartz "a potential conflict of interest has emerged and,
on that basis, she believes it is appropriate that she resign as a director of IAG".

Scheinkestel is no slouch on the corporate governance front. She is an associate professor at the
Melbourne Business School at Melbourne University and a member of the Takeovers Panel.
Scheinkestel, who joined the board of IAG last year, is also on the boards of Telstra, Orica and
Macquarie Atlas Roads Group, which appears to offer no clues as to her decision.

SensaSlim charge

The competition watchdog says it has begun criminal proceedings in the Federal Court in Brisbane
against former UBS investment adviser Michael Boyle for allegedly providing false or misleading
evidence to the investigation into conman Peter Foster's slimming scam SensaSlim.

The Federal Court found in April this year that Foster "was the puppeteer who pulled all the strings in
the operation of the business".

Foster's fun and games as part of the scam include creating a fake Swiss research institute, Institut de
Recherche Intercontinental, to give SensaSlim credibility.

The ACCC says Boyle "knowingly gave false or misleading evidence about his knowledge of Peter
Foster's involvement with SensaSlim".

A directions hearing has been pencilled in for November 3 and Boyle has yet to enter a plea.

In his judgment in April this year, Justice David Yates said that after being offered an anonymous stake
in a UK SensaSlim company, Boyle was prepared to put himself up as the Australian owner and his
only concern was that his employment with UBS was not mentioned.

The court heard that Foster also recruited Melbourne gangland figure Mick Gatto and his business
associate John Khoury in the scam to resolve a 2010 dispute with SensaSlim head of sales Scott
Emerton.

Foster was sentenced by the Federal Court last year, in absentia, to three years' jail for breaching
orders banning him from the weight-loss industry. His current whereabouts is unknown but he has
recently claimed to be back in Fiji.

Retirement tackle

You can't accuse All Black legends Dan Carter and Richie McCaw of not planning ahead.

Kiwi rag the National Business Review reports the rugby duo could end up as investors in the
upcoming float of a retirement village business.

Carter, McCaw and fellow All Black Kieran Read are investors in one of the villages that are about to
be hoovered up ahead of the float by Hercules Ltd, which is expected to raise up to $NZ100 million
($90.7 million) before the float.

Cash goes begging
Liquidators of the failed labour hire groupBluestone Global are miffed that thousands of workers have
yet to claim millions of dollars in entitlements nearly a month after being advised to do so.

"KordaMentha Restructuring cannot make the applications on behalf of workers. It must be done
themselves," says Craig Shepard.

CBD wonders if they have considered a few enticements to get employees to act.

You could get killed by the stampede when Fairfax newsrooms announce the free lollies on Friday
afternoons.

Body of work
Uber celebrity and real estate spruiker Arnold Schwarzenegger is headlining this week's CLSA
Investors' Forum in Hong Kong with a lunch today to "share his unique story and personal anecdotes
of the events that have shaped his formidable rise to fame from Austrian emigrant to the 38th governor
of California".

Page156of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The wealthy Schwarzenegger might prove to be a difficult figure to emulate given his starting point was
winning the Mr Universe bodybuilding contest.

Got a tip? ckruger@fairfaxmedia.com.au

NS
RE

PUB
AN

guni : University/College | gcat : Political/General News | gedu : Education
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020140916ea9h0001n

Page157of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.