Greenland lights up Lucent

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

CO
IN

NS
RE

PUB

CommercialProperty
Greenland lights up Lucent

EXCLUSIVE: GREG BROWN, APARTMENTS
303 words
26 July 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
38
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

CHINESE state-owned development giant Greenland Holding Group is readying to launch its
second Australian project, the $200 million Lucent apartment complex in affluent North Sydney.

The luxury development, at 225-235 Pacific Highway, will include 211 apartments over 17 levels,
designed by Turner Architects.

It will be the group’s first suburban project locally, with its initial development a $600m residential
and hotel development in the Sydney CBD.

The Lucent development will feature a rooftop garden with Sydney Harbour views, which will include
a swimming pool and a barbecue area. There will be a mix of studio and one, two and
three-bedroom apartments.
CBRE managing director of residential projects David Milton said there would be fewer offshore
buyers in this development than in Greenland’s first apartment project, the Greenland Centre in the
Sydney CBD.

He said Greenland had hired an architect that had designed several north shore projects, and
expected about 15 per cent of buyers to come from overseas.

“It’s very much built for the Australian market,” Mr Milton said. “It will appeal to upper north shore
people, lower north shore people and people that look at (living) in the city but don’t want to be right
in the CBD.” Greenland acquired the property, previously an industrial site, in March for about
$58m.
It is the second suburban site the group has bought this year, after the purchase of a parcel in
inner western Leichhardt.
The group’s global chairman Zhang Yuliang last week told The Australian Greenland was
negotiating to buy other Sydney sites.Lucent’s VIP launch is scheduled for late September with the
display suite opening for viewing in late August. The project is expected to be completed in the
second quarter of 2016.

sgregc : Greenland Holding Group Company Limited
i501 : Building Construction | i5010021 : Land Development/Subdivision | iconst : Construction | icre
: Real Estate/Construction
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | greenl : Greenland | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | namz : North America | nswals : New South Wales
News Ltd.

Page249of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AN

Document AUSTLN0020140725ea7q000by

Page250of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.