Foreign-owned miners should pay their dues

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Foreign-owned miners should pay their dues

Tim Buckley
785 words
2 July 2014
The Newcastle Herald
NEHR
First
11
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

THEIR SAY opinion

The federal government must close the loopholes that allow some major multinationals to pay little or no
corporate tax, writes Tim Buckley.

THE recent article in the Newcastle Herald by Michael West ("Tax bill for Glencore a big zero") brilliantly
highlighted a harsh truth: when it comes to paying tax, multinationals play by their own rules.

Be it Glencore, Facebook or Google, thesecompanies work primarily for their global shareholders and
might work for the general benefit of their host country, but as for any foreign domain like Australia - it is
fair game. The idea of paying a fair share of corporate tax in a foreign country is certainly not in any
hymn book they sing from.

Looking at the coalmining industry specifically, the evidence is pretty clear - foreign companies own
most of Australia's mining and related infrastructure assets. Global pension funds like Blackrock, Fidelity
and Capital International own the majority of shares in even Australian domiciled multinationals like BHP
and Rio. Japanese, Korean, Chinese and Indian power and trading companies, plus global coal
companies like Anglo American, Peabody and Vale own most of Australia's coal assets.

The rail and port infrastructure of the coalmining industry is likewise increasingly owned by global firms
like Brookfield of Canada (which owns the vast Dalrymple Bay coal port), Adani of India (Abbot Point)
and China Merchants Group (which now owns the Port of Newcastle). The Port of Brisbane is partly
owned by Abu Dhabi Investment Authority.
Not even NSW coal assets of Whitehaven Coal, an ASX listed firm, are Australian. Whitehaven's largest
shareholder is Farallon Capital of New York. As of March 2014, Whitehaven's share register shows that
10 of the top 15 shareholders are foreign registered. And Japanese and Korean power firms like Itochu
Corp own direct stakes of 25 to 30 per cent in each of Maules Creek, Narrabri and Tarrawonga
coalmines.
In its Mining the age of entitlement report last week, The Australian Institute revealed $17.6 billion was
paid in state government assistance to the mining industry in Australia in the past six years. So no
matter what the foreign company-funded Queensland Resource Council lobby group claims, Australian
coalmining is majority foreign owned; in the main, pays a disproportionately low share of corporate tax;
and receives a disproportionately large share of state aid, at a time our government requires austerity
for all ordinary Australians.

Here are some solutions to limit tax avoidance by multinationals. One is to limit the tax deductibility of
interest from excessive leverage, termed a thin-capitalisation rule.

When questions are raised about the overstated benefits of foreign investment, mining industry lobby
groups are quick to claim "xenophobia" in a crude attempt to stifle debate. Having worked in the global

Page44of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.financial markets for 25 years, I am all for free markets. But with one caveat - that our Australian
government should set the rules to protect the interests of all Australian citizens.
The government needs to ensure multinationals can't buy up Australian companies, add huge amounts
of tax-deductible debt, and then use transfer pricing so the tax haven-based marketing divisions shift
offshore the profits from industrial divisions, and then ask for fossil fuel subsidies like the $2.4 billion
annual diesel rebate. Australian voters pay diesel tax, but foreign-owned miners are exempt.

Who is our government working for? Premier Campbell Newman in Queensland knows - he regularly
tells us he is proudly in the coal business, right alongside Adani Enterprises, GVK Power, Anglo
American and Glencore.

BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto are multinationals, but being domiciled in Australia, their attitude to
environmental, social and governance issues is far more attuned to Australia's interests. BHP and Rio
Tinto are among its largest corporate taxpayers. BHP and Rio Tinto also identify worker safety as a key
performance indicator. Swiss-based Glencore falls way behind on both counts.

The revelations of Glencore's tax minimising raise broader questions too. If coal companies can exploit
tax law loopholes to pay next to no corporate tax in Australia, the bulk of the financial benefits of
coalmining will flow overseas while residents will be left to carry the costs of coal dust, water, health and
mine remediation.
The risk is that not only will Hunter Valley industries such as tourism, wine, renewable energy and
farming be badly compromised in what looks like the dying decade of the thermal coal industry but
governments will have no funds to invest in enabling the development of the industries of the future.

Tim Buckley is director of Australasian Finance Studies, Institute of Energy Economics and Financial
Analysis

CO
IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
e211 : Government Taxation/Revenue | ccptax : Corporate Taxation | c13 : Regulation/Government
Policy | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e21 : Government Finance | ecat : Economic News | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document NEHR000020140702ea7200015

Page45of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.