Padbury questioned by Australian regulators over A$6.5B Oakajee port, rail funding deal

Padbury questioned by Australian regulators over A$6.5B Oakajee port, rail funding deal

Angela Kean

HD
BY
WC 371 words
PD
SN
SC
VOL Issue: 80163
LA
CY
LP

18 April 2014
SNL Metals & Mining Daily: East Edition
SNLMMDE

English
Copyright 2014. SNL Financial LC

ASX-listed iron ore explorer Padbury Mining Ltd. has received enquiries from the ASX and the Australian
Securities and Investments Commission relating to its announcement of a A$6.5 billion investment deal it
struck to fund the development of port and rail infrastructure in Western Australia's Mid West region.
The company requested an extension to its voluntary suspension on April 17, saying that it now expects
to reveal further details of the shareholders' agreement on April 23. The agreement was first announced
almost a week earlier, on April 11.

Padbury previously came out of a trading halt to announce that private Australian equity investors will
provide the funding to build the Oakajee port and rail.

Under the deal, the project will be developed by Midwest Infrastructure Pty. Ltd., or MWI, a fully owned
subsidiary of Padbury. The investors in the project will obtain a 64% stake in MWI, with the remaining
36% to be held by Padbury.
The company re-entered a trading halt and requested a subsequent voluntary suspension from the ASX
following the announcement due to the lack of detail of the deal and had anticipated making a further
announcement on April 17.

Padbury said the reason for the extension of its voluntary suspension is that it is seeking information
regarding the ability of counterparties to the shareholders' agreement to meet funding obligations under
the agreement, as well as their consent to disclose the agreement in its entirety.

The ASX and Australian Securities and Investments Commission have requested that Padbury produce
certain documents related to the proposed funding deal. The company said it would use the extended
voluntary suspension to respond to the regulators' queries.

Meanwhile, there is some confusion over who will actually fund and build the Oakajee port and rail
project, with the Western Australian government in talks with Chinese state-owned enterprises to back
the project.
Premier Colin Barnett reportedly met with the chairman of Chinese state-backed company CITIC Group
Corp. to discuss the possibility of the multinational funding the Oakajee project.

He also claimed that he had not had any dealings with Padbury regarding the development.

rivgol : Padbury Mining Limited | ausic : Australian Securities and Investments Commission
i5020017 : Harbor Construction | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | i22 : Primary Metals | i502 : Heavy
Construction | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | iconst : Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction
| i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2112 : Gold Ore/Silver Ore Mining | imet : Mining/Quarrying
c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

TD

CO
IN

NS

RE
IPD Federal Regulatory Activity
PUB SNL Financial LC

Page181of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AN

Document SNLMMDE020140423ea4i0000h

Page182of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.