Increasing overseas interest and surge in confidence are good signs for local investors

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Increasing overseas interest and surge in confidence are good signs for local investors

405 words
5 February 2014
Property Observer
PMPROP
English
Copyright 2014 Private Media Partners Pty Ltd

Commercial property stands to benefit from the recent improved business trading figures — which have
soared to a two-year high. These now fall into line with the NAB Survey's confidence levels.

As such, many forecasters believe these latest figures (together with the growth in house prices over the
past 12 months) now reflect the underlying strength of Australia's post-mining economy.

Therefore, further interest rate reductions expected by the RBA are unlikely to occur any time soon — if at
all.
The China factor
As you would be aware, China has just confirmed its annual growth figure at 7.5% for the December
quarter.

While this may be down from the heady 10% plus during our mining boom, it clearly reflects a far more
realistic and sustainable level of annual growth.

All this means is that the mining sector will now be operating in a more traditional supply phase — instead
of the previous boom-time development phase.
You'll recall an article last year outlining China's potential demand for our iron ore over at least the next
20 years or so — where the underlying facts and logic remain rather persuasive.
If China continues along this path, it can only help in re-balancing the Australian economy.
Overseas demand for commercial property

Over the past five years, overseas buyers (mainly Asian) have accounted for more than half of the direct
purchases in commercial property.

And yet over the past 12 months, savvy local investors have also re-entered the market in competition —
and now account for 70% of direct commercial property purchases.

However, with our dollar falling below parity with the US the level of interest from overseas buyers will
only escalate.
Even though many of these purchases may be at the higher end of the market, this effectively forces
investors to seek out suitable property in a lower price bracket.

Bottom line

As the competition increases these higher prices will begin filtering down through the entire market,
causing yields to firm. And that will inevitably result in solid growth for investors, over the next three to
five years.
Chris Lang is an advisor to commercial property investors, sell-out author and regular speaker on how
to invest in commercial property.
You can visit his website Property Edge Australia to help you get the most out of your commercial
property investing.

NS

greest : Real Estate/Property | gcat : Political/General News

Page171of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB Private Media Partners Pty Ltd.
AN

Document PMPROP0020140205ea250000b

Page172of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.