Rio seeks Chinese and Middle East partners for Guinea project

HD
BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY

LP

TD

Rio seeks Chinese and Middle East partners for Guinea project

By James Wilson and Andrew England in Cape Town
694 words
6 February 2014
03:48
Financial Times (FT.Com)
FTCOM
English
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and
redistribute by email or post to the web.

Rio Tinto is in talks with potential partners from the Middle East and China to seek finance for a $18bn
mine project in Guinea, in what could be a model for miners to fund the soaring cost of developments.
The Anglo-Australian miner has been in discussions with groups including Mubadala, oil-rich Abu
Dhabi's active investment vehicle, as well as the sovereign wealth funds of Kuwait and Qatar over
possible investment in a 1,100km railway and port needed to unlock Rio's development of Simandou, an
iron ore deposit in the west African country.

In China, Rio has been in talks with the China Investment Corporation, as well other entities including
ICBC and the China Development Bank, according to people familiar with the project.
Rio wanted a consortium of partners who could fund an estimated $3bn of equity for the infrastructure,
while debt finance of a similar amount would also be needed, the people said. "Middle Eastern or
Chinese partners are the potential funders," said one.

The tabular content relating to this article is not available to view. Apologies in advance for the
inconvenience caused.

<>Any deal with Gulf investors would represent a significant increase in the region's involvement in
African mining and would build on growing ties to Guinea. Abu Dhabi and Dubai last year agreed a
$5bn investment to develop a bauxite mine and alumina refinery.

People close to Mubadala said that while the investment vehicle was keen on the bauxite project, it was
less likely to be interested in iron ore.
Simandou is considered one of world's highest quality iron ore deposits but is not viable without a rail
link to the coast for shipment of mined ore.

Rio owns rights to part of Simandou while the other half of the deposit is controlled by a consortium
made up of Brazil's Vale and BSG Resources, the mining arm of the business group of Beny Steinmetz,
an Israeli billionaire.

Guinea is undertaking a review of the award of the concession to BSGR amid allegations of bribery.
BSGR, which denies any wrongdoing, told Reuters this week it would be open to discussions with
Guinea that allowed it to maintain and develop its investment.

The proposals for Simandou come as Rio aims to cut capital expenditure from more than $17bn in 2012
to less than half that level next year. Rio, like other global miners, is finding projects increasingly risky as
capital costs soar and shareholders complain of poor returns.
If Rio succeeded in raising the funds through a combination of Gulf and Chinese investment vehicles it
would the first financing deal of its kind. The miner may have to soothe competitive tensions between the
Chinese and Arab investors, as both are increasingly looking to secure stable supplies of raw materials.

Page160of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.China's Chinalco is already involved in the Simandou project as a joint venture partner, and is the
largest investor in Rio itself.
Addressing the Mining Indaba conference in Cape Town, Alan Davies, a Rio Tinto executive who heads
the project, said the size and scale of infrastructure development needed "an innovative approach to
bringing new partners to the table in order to fund the investment required and share the risk".
Kerfalla Yansané, Guinea's mining minister, said: "It makes sense that Rio Tinto is trying to get in touch
with all parties that might have resources and we know that today resources are in the Middle East and
China.

"All parties should be welcomed, particularly those that are already known, namely the Gulf countries but
also China, South Korea, Malaysia."

He said he hoped the investment agreement between Rio and Guinea could be ready in the first half of
the year. "The sooner the better," said Mr Yansané.

Guinea and Rio still have to agree the investment framework for the mine project, expected in the first
half of the year. "We hope that very soon we will strike the right deal with our partners at Rio Tinto," Mr
Yansané said.

Additional reporting by Simeon Kerr in Dubai.

CO

IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

chinvm : China Investment Corp. Ltd. | rtz : Rio Tinto PLC | rtzcra : Rio Tinto Group | craaus : Rio Tinto
Ltd
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | imet : Mining/Quarrying | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | i81502 :
Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities | isover :
Sovereign Wealth Fund
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | reqrmm : Suggested Reading Metals/Mining | redit : Selection of Top
Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
china : China | uae : United Arab Emirates | austr : Australia | gurep : Guinea | kuwait : Kuwait | qatar :
Qatar | africaz : Africa | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC
Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | gulfstz : Persian Gulf Region | meastz : Middle East | wafrz : West
Africa | wasiaz : Western Asia
The Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)
Document FTCOM00020140205ea25003ml

Page161of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.