Fears as pulp mill bid run by ex-Gunns man falls flat - EXCLUSIVE -

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Local
Fears as pulp mill bid run by ex-Gunns man falls flat - EXCLUSIVE -

MATTHEW DENHOLM, TASMANIA CORRESPONDENT
550 words
8 February 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
1 - All-round Country
8
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

AN overseas company pulled out of bidding for Gunns's Tasmanian pulp mill assets, prompting
industry fears the plantation feedstock will be wood-chipped or fed to a basic ``brown pulp'' plant.

The Weekend Australian has learned that former Gunns chief executive Greg L'Estrange organised
a bid with a major foreign pulp player hoping to build the $2.5 million mill essentially as planned by
the failed timber firm.

The bid was withdrawn after the first round, with the company deciding the task was too complex
and costly compared to Asian and Latin American opportunities.

While Gunns receiver KordaMentha insists two bidders remain interested in bidding for the mill
permit, industry sources believe the L'Estrange bid was the only one capable of building the
world-scale bleached eucalypt kraft mill ``any time soon''.
They now expect the Gunns assets to be sold to financial investors or a private equity firm, which
would woodchip and export the plantations while searching for a pulp mill backer before the permit
expires in 2017.

This would mean ongoing uncertainty for the Tamar Valley, where opinion on the project is divided
among those hoping for jobs and those concerned about pollution and impacts on local food,
tourism and wine industries.
One timber industry source said a Chinese company was interested in building a ``brown pulp''
mill, involving the simple extraction of water from the wood before it was shipped to China for final
processing and bleaching.

There was also concern that surviving bidders were unwilling to fund the cost of replanting and
regrowing the 90,000ha of Gunns plantations, intending to instead harvest them only once.

This would mean downstream timber processing would be short-lived unless the government
agreed to fund the replanting and managing of the plantations.

Mr L'Estrange said yesterday he was unable to comment on whether he had been involved in
organising a bid or related issues.

Industry sources said the L'Estrange-organised bid was the only serious interest from a party
capable of building the world-scale pulp mill planned by Gunns and committing to multiple
plantation rotations.
They said the pulp-mill permit was now expected to be sold very cheaply because the buyer would
have to assume the project may not get off the ground and that the plantations would be exported
as lower-value woodchips.

Page8of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Even so, sources said the buyer would be able to use the three-year period before the mill permit
expired to find a backer for the project and hope that market conditions, including the high
Australian dollar, improved.

State Greens forestry spokesman Kim Booth said using public subsidies to replant plantations to
feed a wood-chipper or pulp mill would amount to ``corruption''.

Industry sources said whoever purchased the permit would not be in a position to secure financing
to build the $2 billion-plus project unless they found a far larger wood supply.
They said the plantations for sale via KordaMentha would supply less than half the 4.5 million
tonnes of wood needed for the pulp mill each year.

A KordaMentha spokesman said six second-round bidders were undertaking due diligence for all or
some of the assets.

i47101 : Pulp Mills | ipper : Paper/Pulp | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | reqpap : Suggested Reading Paper/Packaging | redit : Selection
of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140207ea2800010

IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page9of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.