Group learns of Cowell's link to China

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

news
Group learns of Cowell's link to China

364 words
20 May 2014
Eyre Peninsula Tribune
FEYREP
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

Cleve Probus

MEMBERS and visitors were treated to an informative and entertaining talk given by Muriel Siviour at
its monthly meeting in the Cleve Hotel on May 6.

Mrs Siviour shared experiences of a trip to China, taken by her and husband Dean.

This was a planned farming tour, which ensured these tourists went to some places not seen by
regular travellers to China.
Mrs Siviour said she loved China, found it to be very clean given the population density, and that she
would gladly go back again any time.

They visited Tianamin Square experiencing vast crowds of people, and went to museums, which were
a great education but not a word of English was spoken to help answer questions.

They also visited the famous Emperors Palace in the Forbidden City built in 1406.

This palace was a structure which took 40 years to build and the whole city area covered 72 hectares.
Beijing is a city of some 22 million people. It is a very old city and parts of the original are being
preserved, while other parts are being demolished to make way for modern structures, both
commercial and residential.

Car use is discouraged, but movement is taken up by vast numbers of scooters and motor bikes.
In parts of the country they found that modern new apartment blocks were not being used as people
preferred their older cheaper accommodation.

Eco gardens were sighted having been established from converted waste water.

The rural part of the tour showed very large cattle feed lots where up to 80,000 cattle at three sites
were kept for three months before processing.

Some of this meat was exported to Germany.
A visit to a large dairy showed an enterprise where 2000 cows were milked three times a day.
Interestingly no fresh milk was available, but it all was sold as long life milk.

At a trip to a jade factory the visitors learnt that jade from Cowell was imported for processing.
Naturally a visit to the Great Wall of China was part of this very special venture.

RE

PUB

china : China | saustr : South Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
austr : Australia | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited

Page113of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AN

Document FEYREP0020140522ea5k00001

Page114of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.