Local Condor takes fracking fight to Houston majors ‘duopoly’

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Local Condor takes fracking fight to Houston majors ‘duopoly’

MATT CHAMBERS, ENERGY
687 words
16 August 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
26
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

FRACKING in Australia is a capital and power-intensive business, dominated by two Houston oil
services majors — Halliburton and Schlumberger.

But a local start-up, headed by a former executive at one of the big players, is taking on an industry he
says is effectively a duopoly.

Perth-based Condor Energy, at a cost of $40 million, has imported the nation’s biggest fracture
stimulation “spread” — the fleet of trucks, massive engines and support vehicles needed to frack an
onshore well.
The entrance of a small new player has come after three years of chasing equity and debt funding
here and overseas to join what could be a rapidly growing industry — if companies like Beach Energy
and Santos can unlock the code to releasing the vast onshore shale and other unconventional gas
resources around the nation.

Condor managing director Christian Lange says his time with Shlumberger in the US, where the big
players dominated the industry until entrepreneurs with fracking equipment successfully challenged the
status quo, showed him the same was possible here. “I came back to Australia and it became obvious
the industry needed something to shake up the major players,” Mr Lange said at an Adelaide launch of
the business this week. He has put together a team of 60 employees with experience at the majors.

“There are industry concerns over what is essentially a duopoly, and duopolies are never that
innovative, so there’s no real competition. Australia has been like that for a long time.” A frack fleet is
not a small piece of kit. To generate the pressure to send frack fluid down a well with enough force to
crack the shale, 12 diesel engines capable of generating 2500 horsepower each, or about the half size
of an engine needed to power a naval patrol boat, are linked together.

There are only five to seven of the spreads in Australia at any one time (depending on how the majors
configure their larger fleets, owned by Schlumberger, Halliburton, Baker Hughes and now Condor.
Combined, they able to generate a 150,000 horsepower.
In the US, the total figure is 16 million horsepower.

“Even if we grow to 10 per cent of that market, we will need a lot more horsepower, so we want to grow
in line with that,” Mr Lange said.
He would not say whether taking the company public was on the cards but noted how hard it had been
to raise the start-up funding in Australia.

In the US, he said he had been flooded with offers to start a new business there but investors had
baulked at sovereign risk concerns in Australia following uncertainty generated by the previous Labour
government.
Condor’s major shareholders are Proserpine Capital Partners and Hong Kong-based Tiger Pacific.

Page15of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Underpinning the company is its first contract to drill for Beach Energy in the Queensland portion of
the Cooper Basin.
Beach managing director Reg Nelson said he was keen to use a company that was going out of its
way to use local services and employ local people.
“This is an Aussie company embarking on what is going to be a difficult task,” Mr Nelson said, adding
the rewards would be large if the gas resources of central Australia can be unlocked.
The original two-year contract will be for a joint venture Beach has with US energy giant Chevron, who
Mr Lange said has also been a strong supporter.

Condor’s first assignment will be to frack four vertical wells the joint venture plans to drill.

At the launch, South Australian Treasurer and Resources Minister Tom Koutsantonis showed a
marked difference from his counterparts in the frack-shy states of NSW and Victoria, which both have
exploration restrictions on onshore gas drilling.Mr Koutsantonis said Condor was exactly the type of
industry the state government wanted and it would not be swayed by “scaremongering” and “false
science” from groups opposed to fracking. “We have been fracking in this state since 1969 and not an
aquifer has been polluted,” he said.

bchpet : Beach Energy Limited | slumb : Schlumberger Ltd
ifrack : Fracking | i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources |
iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction |
i1300005 : Support Activities for Oil/Gas
cnatrd : Natural Reserves/Resources Discovery | c184 : Joint Ventures | c18 : Ownership Changes |
c24 : Capacity/Facilities | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | usa : United States | houst : Houston | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | namz : North America | uss : Southern U.S. | ustx : Texas
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140815ea8g000a0

CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page16of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.