Imports not all China needs

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

EARLY GENERAL NEWS
Imports not all China needs

ANDREW MARSHALL
721 words
7 August 2014
The Land
FTLAND
19
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

AUSTRALIAN farmers and farm product traders should think more about what they can do to help
Chinese agribusiness growth rather than simply expecting booming China to be a cash cow for our
own exports.
Opportunities exist to take Australian expertise to the fast developing Chinese farm sector, says ANZ
Banking Group's head of agribusiness in China James Campbell.

Australia's relatively modest farm export capacity (on a global scale) means our agribusiness
expertise could be just as much appreciated, and profitable, as food and fibre sales according to
those on the ground in China.
Opportunities include supplying livestock genetics and nutrition or breeding advice to Chinese beef,
dairy and sheep enterprises, or providing practical help to meat and dairy supply chains.

Australian experience in water management, horticulture and grain storage and handling was also
greatly valued.
"Last year China lost about 35 million tonnes of cereals to wastage caused by inadequate loading
and handling systems you could say it literally fell out the back of the trucks," said Shanghai-based
Mr Campbell (pictured).
"That figure is equal to about half China's annual cereal imports.
"Clearly China doesn't want to be heavily dependent on grain imports the Chinese are very focused
on developing self sufficiency for staple food crops like wheat, rice and corn.
"About 221 million square kilometres of farmland has been reserved to grow staple crops, and
growing them more productively.

"But the harvest needs to be handled efficiently, too."
He said rather than sitting back expecting China to eagerly buy Australian food exports or invest in
our farms, processing plants and commodity trading businesses, more Australian companies and
individuals could be asking how they might better contribute to the Chinese growth story in China.

Aside from scope for our input to its fast emerging greenhouse horticulture sector or broadacre
agronomy, livestock husbandry and livestock genetics areas, Australia also had a lot of cold chain
logistics know-how, which was badly needed in China.

"Australia's a big place and we understand cold storage infrastructure and how to move containerised
bulk freight long distances," Mr Campbell said.
"If you're doing business in China the risk of not being paid is not so much of an issue, but the risk
of your product being contaminated or spoilt before it reaches the end user is quite real.

Page16of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."Australians mightn't have all the answers but we know how to get a lot of this sort of stuff done.
"Rather than asking what China can do for us in Australia, we should be thinking about what
opportunities we can get involved in over here."

Australian Chamber of Com-merce (AustCham) government relations representative in Beijing
Andrew Britz said there was no shortage of Australians already working and doing business in
China.

But as an export marketplace it was "different", and he agreed it might be easier for some Australians
to look at service opportunities rather than selling farm products.
Despite China's big demand for farm products and Australia's undoubted ability in the food, fibre,
wine and dairy sectors, Mr Britz said there was no easy road to riches for exporters.
"We're very good at producing wine or meat but when you think of the size of most Australian
businesses, we're generally well below the scale of other exporters into China Europe, America or
South America," he said.

"People who think its a matter of packing off a container load of product are quickly disappointed it
takes a lot more time and money than expected and you need to establish a lot of supply networks."

Mr Britz said Australia's infrastructure networks at home also needed improving significantly to match
the efficiency of many other competitors vying for China's trade business.

There was, however, a lot of agricultural market growth potential if the much anticipated free trade
agreement (FTA) was concluded this year.
"AustCham's agricultural working group is supporting the government with research
recommendations to help negotiators with their FTA discussions," he said.

"We're also starting to work with the National Farmers Federation to help promote opportunities
relevant to the market in China."
n Andrew Marshall travelled to China as a guest of Elders.

aanzb : Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Limited
i0 : Agriculture | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal :
Financial Services
c312 : External Markets | gtrade : Tariffs/Trade Barriers | e512 : Physical Trade | c31 : Marketing |
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News | gcat :
Political/General News | gdip : International Relations | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging
Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FTLAND0020140806ea870002l

CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page17of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.