Macquarie weighs leasing deal as ROC lures Asian buyer

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Market Wrap - Street Talk
Macquarie weighs leasing deal as ROC lures Asian buyer

Edited by Sarah Thompson, Anthony Macdonald and Gretchen Friemann
442 words
26 June 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
18
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Macquarie Group is preparing to lob an indicative offer next month to participate in the partial sale of
Terra Firma's AWAS  aircraft leasing unit, which some are valuing at US$4 billion.

Macquarie, which has already received a teaser document and an information memorandum, is still
running through the numbers after Terra Firma's advisers opted for a partial sale of its aircraft fleet.

Goldman Sachs and Deutsche Bank were tasked in March with exploring strategic options for the
300-strong plane division, including a sale in its entirety or an initial public offering.
In May, they decided to forge ahead with the sale of 100 of the younger aircraft , and Street Talk has
learned the transaction may see about 40 AWAS executives transfer to a potential buyer. There are
some questions about whether Terra Firma and its advisers may change their minds again, but for
the moment the partial sale is the favoured option.

Macquarie was scouring for partners in Asia and elsewhere earlier in the year to partake in the
full-sale, and the situation remains fluid. But the company has shied away from some transactions in
the industry in recent years, cautious about lofty prices.

A Macquarie-led group lost out to Sumitomo Mitsui Financial in 2012, as they bid for the Royal Bank
of Scotland's plane leasing unit in a sale that fetched more than $US7 billion.
Macquarie knows the Terra Firma assets well, however, as the company was an underbidder for
AWAS in 2006 when Morgan Stanley sold the unit to the London-based private equity firm founded
by Guy Hands.

Macquarie did acquire a large fleet of planes from American International Group's ILFC arm in 2010.
Elsewhere, the $800 million ROC and Horizon merger took a surprise twist on Wednesday.
Sources claimed ROC's surprise suitor, which approached the company last Friday, is an Asian
company. Although many pointed to a cashed-up Chinese buyer, it is worth noting Hong
Kong-listed oil trader Brightoil Petroleum cast an eye over ROC a few years ago. However, some
have questioned why BrightOil would return at a higher price.
Another potential candidate is Tamarind Energy, run by Ian Angell, who previously worked for
Talisman Malaysia. The firm has a funding commitment from private equity giant Blackstone and a
tilt at ROC would fit with their investment ambition.

While the takeover bid caught the market unawares, it is understood a fourth party may emerge.
AWE and Senex are known to be considering their options.

CO

mcqbnk : Macquarie Group Limited | terfim : Terra Firma Capital Partners Limited

Page165of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

i814 : Banking | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150203 : Private Equity | i831 : Financial
Investments | i83101 : Investment Banking | ialtinv : Alternative Investments | ibnk : Banking/Credit |
ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140625ea6q0001n

Page166of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.