Apollo Global (APO) Invests $570M in Leighton's Services Arm

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY

LP

TD

Apollo Global (APO) Invests $570M in Leighton's Services Arm

392 words
19 December 2014
Cihan News Agency (CNA)
CINEWA
English
Copyright © 2014 Cihan News Agency. Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com Company All
Rights Reserved.

Apollo Global Management, LLC is set to buy half of the services arm of Australia's biggest builder,
Leighton Holdings Ltd, for $570 million. Leighton's services business is one of the largest services firms
in Australia.

Per the all-cash deal, Apollo Global and Leighton will enter into a 50:50 investment partnership in the
maintenance services business of the latter. Leighton's Thiess Services and Leighton Contractors
Services units are involved in the construction and management of communications, energy and
infrastructure projects in Australia. The combined units have an enterprise value of $885 million.

These two units, along with a newly-formed board and executive team, will plan a smooth integration
process.

The partnership deal is subject to approvals from Foreign Investment Review Board and New Zealand
Overseas Investment Office. It also needs other customary regulatory approvals.
The stake-sale will help Leighton reduce its leverage ratio by 10 percentage points. Besides leverage,
Apollo Global's steady cash flows and long-term contracts will also provide Leighton with funds to
improve its financials and enhance future growth. It will continue to enjoy exposure and compete
efficiently in the growing Australian services market. At the same time, the move is a progress toward
Leighton's aim of simplifying and streamlining its business.
Leighton suffered a huge loss of around $500 million stemming from Thiess' involvement in the
Brisbane Airport Link Project and few other projects.
Therefore, Hochtief, the parent company of Leighton, has been selling off assets this year to improve its
balance sheet and reduce leverage, as part of a strategic review initiative.

On Dec 11, as part of the initiative, Leighton sold its John Holland division to CCC International Holding
Limited, a Chinese company, for $0.9 billion.
Apollo Global, a leading global investment management firm, expects to deliver extraordinary results to
its customers by providing them with a world-class industrial and civil services company.
Back in May, Apollo Global made investments worth $500 million in CSV Midstream Solutions Corp, a
Canadian construction and engineering firm.
The recent purchase of Leighton's services business will enhance Apollo Global's focus on construction
and engineering firms.
The company has also announced the completion of a transaction with Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc.
to create a multi-platform content provider.

CO

IN

apolmn : Apollo Global Management LLC | leiho : Leighton Holdings Ltd | hocht : Hochtief AG | ocisa :
ACS Actividades de Construcciones y Servicios SA
i502 : Heavy Construction | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150203 : Private Equity | ialtinv :
Alternative Investments | iconst : Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ifinal : Financial
Services | iinv : Investing/Securities

Page114of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE
IPD
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Financial Services
Cihan News Agency
Document CINEWA0020141219eacj001jt

Page115of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.