CBD

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business - CBD
CBD

Colin Kruger
666 words
1 April 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
22
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Voelte sidesteps Nexus conflict
Seven Group Holdings' takeover of oil and gas tiddler Nexus is generating all sorts of excitement
concerning the conflicting roles of Don Voelte.

He stood down as Nexus chairman in February after deciding his Seven boss, Kerry Stokes, would be
interested in Nexus if it chose a fire sale instead of corporate implosion. The document relating to the
$26 million takeover, being supported by the remaining Nexus directors, details how Voelte tiptoed
around a minefield of conflicts.
"At the first mention of a total company sale process during his tenure, then chairman Don Voelte
advised the Nexus board that, if there was going to be an industry-wide process, SGH may be
interested and that he would need to recuse himself from any and all participation. Mr Voelte offered his
resignation at that time, but the rest of the board were of the view that, should a corporate transaction
not eventuate, and on the basis that appropriate measures were put in place to manage any potential
conflict of interest, his continued involvement on the board was in shareholders' best interests. An
independent committee of the board was immediately organised for the sale process. Mr Voelte
remained recused from company sale discussions from that point in time until his resignation."

No detail on when this happened, and what subsequently triggered his resignation in February - more
than a month before Seven's bid finally became public. Stokes can presumably count on Voelte selling
his 1 million Nexus shares to Seven.

Downer on rise

The Hon. Alexander John Gosse Downer, knight of the scarlet garter, is heading back into public
service as Australia's next high commissioner to London.

Going by the wayside will be his directorship of Huawei - although his new gig will give him a chance to
marvel at how the Brits have not let concerns about Huawei's alleged close connections to the Chinese
government prevent it from winning local telco infrastructure contracts.

No such luck here.

Some things are best left in the past, of course, like his directorship of Resourcehouse, the Clive
Palmermining vehicle that failed in no less than four attempts at an IPO, its last in 2011. Downer and
the rest of the non-executive board resigned within the year and Resourcehouse is "no longer
functioning" we were told by Mineralogy staff.

Friends indeed

Unilife has been a favourite of CBD over the years, but it looks like we are not the only ones conferring
special status on the retractable syringe maker.

Page288of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.According to stock trading news site Seeking Alpha, Unilife is one several stocks that have been getting
glowing reports from less than independent parties recently.

"I have now identified clear indications of undisclosed promotions on both Inovio Pharmaceuticals (INO)
and Unilife Corp (UNIS), using IR (investment relations) firm the Proactive Group," reads the story. "In
both cases, the promotions took place in conjunction with the release of news and boosted the stock. All
the stocks mentioned so far have several things in common: They have minimal investment from
institutions and are overwhelmingly held by retail investors who can be easily influenced by paid
promotions."

CBD is unsure why Unilife would need any such spruiking. Its financial results speak for themselves.
The stream of red ink has progressed each of the last three years from a $US38 million loss in 2011, to
$US52.6 million in 2012, and $US64.2 million last year. Revenue has also set a clear trend, falling
from $US6.65 million in 2011 to $US5.5 million in 2012, and $US2.74 million last year.

It means chief executive Alan Shortall managed the distinction in 2012 of having a remuneration
package - totalling $US6.1 million - that exceeded his company's revenue that year. Not that Shortall
isn't worth the money. He has kept Unilife's market value above $US400 million despite the continuing
losses.

Got a tip? ckruger@fairfaxmedia.com.au

RE
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020140331ea410003o

Page289of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.