Private equity outfits put on notice

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Private equity outfits put on notice

BARRY FITZGERALD, COMMENT
560 words
2 April 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
20
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

MICK Davis made his fortune and that of Xstrata as an aggregator of unloved mining assets at low
points of the commodity and equity cycles.
Since Xstrata was swallowed up by Glencore last year in a $US29 billion takeover, Davis has been
preparing for a repeat performance for his new resource play, which funnily enough goes by the name
of X2 Resources.

In London on Monday, Davis announced X2 had secured $US3.75bn ($4.04bn) from trading
company Noble Group and US private investment firm TPG, among others. That X2’s success in
pulling in some big-time funding came the day before BHP Billiton’s indirect confirmation that it could
“demerge” as much as $US15bn-$US20bn in non-core assets is one of those happy coincidences of
life.

And it was. But by not categorically denying demerger talk, BHP has effectively told any would-be
buyers of the unloved assets — including X2 — that they had better get a move on and make some
offers.
It has been estimated X2 and other private equity buyers have $US15bn to spend on picking up
discarded assets from BHP, and Rio Tinto for that matter. Some put the figure at $US50bn.

And there is no reason to doubt that they all like the thought of potentially acquiring some of the better
assets that BHP has earmarked for sale in aluminium, nickel, thermal coal, manganese as well as in
silver/lead/zinc. But the threat that BHP might just wrap them up into one bundle and demerge the lot
to shareholders, as it did with its steel interests in the early 2000s, adds a complication for would-be
trade and private equity buyers.

To head that off, proposals need to be put forward now. To keep that pressure up on buyers, BHP will
have to be at its best to convince anyone it is seriously considering bundling up its unwanted assets
for a demerger.

Stand by for some lectures on the diversity of assets to be included, and their ability to offset each
other at differing points in the commodity price cycle.

There will also be much discussion that the unwanted assets actually share something in common,
and that is they are all knee-deep in the upstream part of the businesses: smelting and refining.

But aren’t the low returns that end of the industry delivers the reason why these very assets have
become unloved? BHP will have to do better than that, particularly as clinical one-off asset sales to
the likes of X2 and others will remove one of the main concerns around some of the assets — their
environmental legacy.

Then there is the well-held belief among investors that the $US15bn BHP might be able to raise in
one-off sales would provide a handy backstop to the promise of increased shareholder returns through
dividend increases and share buybacks.

Page243of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.That is what BHP shareholders really want, not an over- financially engineered response to the simple
fact that it is the group’s big four of iron ore, copper, petroleum and coking coal that produce 90 per
cent of its profits, a situation that looks like staying that way until the aluminium and nickel industries
that China has built in quick fashion fall over.That’s not about to happen.

bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC | march : Glencore Xstrata PLC
i8150203 : Private Equity | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | ialtinv : Alternative Investments |
ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
c182 : Asset Transactions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140401ea420006w

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page244of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.