Aurizon mulls track sales in Queensland

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Aurizon mulls track sales in Queensland

Jenny Wiggins
511 words
19 August 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
27
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Transport - Eye on Pilbara, Galilee Basin
Aurizon chief executive Lance Hockridge has confirmed the rail group will consider selling a stake in
its Queensland tracks to fund expansion in mining regions.

Aurizon was considering building new rail networks in Western Australia's Pilbara region as well as
Queensland's Galilee Basin to haul iron and coal for miners, and was evaluating options to pay for
the projects, Mr Hockridge said.
"One option would be the potential to sell down an interest in the central Queensland coal network,"
he said.
Investment bank UBS has estimated that Aurizon could generate up to $2 billion by selling 49 per
cent of its Queensland track business.

Aurizon had not started talks with potential investors in the rail network because it had not made final
investment decisions on either project, Mr Hockridge said.
He indicated the Pilbara project could proceed faster than the Galilee project because Chinese
partner Baosteel wanted to start exporting iron ore as soon as possible to supply a new steelworks
in China.

Aurizon has delayed signing a final agreement with its Galilee partner, miner GVK Hancock, until
early next year. Mr Hockridge cautioned it would take about 12 months for the company to secure
haulage contracts before it could start building a new rail line and new terminal at the port of Abbot
Point.

"Whether it's a three-year horizon or a slightly longer horizon, ultimately the fundamental economics
will underpin both the development of T3 [terminal at Abbot Point] and the opening up of the
Galilee," Mr Hockridge said.
Aurizon reported a 43 per cent fall in annual net profit to $253 million on Monday. Although
underlying earnings before interest and tax (EBIT) rose 13 per cent on a year earlier to $851 million
due to stronger coal and iron ore haulage volumes, Aurizon did not take as much cost out of its
business in the second half as forecast.
Statutory net profits were hurt by previously announced asset impairments of $317 million and
voluntary redundancy costs of $69 million as Aurizon slashed jobs and scaled back its train fleet.
Analysts were concerned to see the company flag increased capital spending on IT, track
maintenance and fleet upgrades. It plans to lift spending to about $600 million annually between
2014-15 and 2016-17 from $350 million annually.

Page92of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."All of a sudden you've got a lot less cash flow coming back," said Matthew Spence, analyst at
Merrill Lynch, adding that Aurizon had not provided much "hard detail" on how the additional
spending would improve revenues.
Aurizon head of operations Mike Franczak argued the company needed higher capital spending for
it to become a world-class operator.
Aurizon will look to cut costs by up to $300 million over two years as a "risk mitigation" strategy
against the possibility of industrial action and flooding in Queensland, and a new regulatory
agreement with the Queensland Competition Authority.

Aurizon shares fell 3 per cent, or 15¢, to 44.88.

CO
IN

RE
PUB
AN

dorval : Aurizon Mines Ltd | qrntnl : Aurizon Holdings Limited | hclamn : Hecla Mining Co
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i71 : Railroads | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | icargo :
Freight/Cargo Transport | igoldm : Gold Ore Mining | imet : Mining/Quarrying | irailtr : Road/Rail
Transport | irfrght : Railroad Freight | itsp : Transportation/Shipping
austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020140818ea8j0004p

Page93of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.