Integra team brings Victoria copper play Stavely to market

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Integra team brings Victoria copper play Stavely to market

IPO watch Sally Rose
769 words
24 March 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
25
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

The team that netted investors $426 million in junior gold producer Integra Mining via a sale to Silver
Lake Resources last year is now trying to raise $8 million through the listing of junior copper explorer
Stavely Minerals. A bookbuild for the initial public offering will launch on March 26, and is due to close
on April 23, with normal trading due to commence on May 7.
RBS Morgans is lead broker on the offer, which will be only the second IPO to use the on-market ASX
Bookbuild Facility that was launched in late 2013. Any broker will be able to bid for a parcel of shares
and a minimum of 25 per cent of the offer will be set aside for on-market bidders.

For the float to go ahead the company must raise a minimum of $5 million through the issue of
25 million shares at 20¢ each. The prospectus allows the company to issue up to 40 million to raise
a maximum of $8 million.
The directors have already spent about $4.7 million on acquisition and exploration. The West
Australian company owns two assets near Ballarat in Victoria. Joint Ore Reserves Committee
documentation shows the Stavely tenement contains 28 million tonnes at 0.4 per cent copper, while
the Mt Ararat tenement is a deposit with 1.2 million tonnes of mineral ore at 2 per cent copper. It is
expected gold would be a by-product of both future copper mines.

The purpose of the IPO is to fund phase one exploratory drilling, which the directors hope will show the
Mt Ararat resource is bigger and that the Stavely tenement contains a porphyry – a more concentrated
and valuable source of copper. Exploratory drilling is due to commence within one month of a
successful listing. Copper preferred to iron ore
Market conditions for junior resource companies are difficult, but the outlook for copper is better than
other metals.
"Copper producers are one of our preferred sectors of the mining industry at the moment because
demand is more broad based than for other commodities, such as iron ore, that are overwhelmingly
dependent on China," Blackswan Equities analyst Mark Savich said. However, it is a tough time for
any resources company that isn't in production yet to be raising money, he said.
"As a rule of thumb, copper projects usually take 10 years from discovery to production," Patersons
Asset Management equity strategist Jason Chesters said. "A notable exception is Sandfire Resources
which did it in four years." 

Stavely Minerals is unable to provide any draft schedule for when it might begin production but points
to the team's experience.

Managing director Chris Cairns, chairman Bill Plyley and directors Peter Ironside and Jennifer Murphy
were all part of the management team of Integra Mining that oversaw that company's transition from
6¢ a share gold explorer to 60¢ a share producer before being swallowed by Silver Lake Resources in
a $426 million acquisition.

Page37of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.There are a number of third-party interests which overlap the Stavely and Mt Ararat tenements
including native title claims, Aboriginal heritage sites, and private land. Gaining consent of these third
parties could create delays or even block the projects. Assuming the Stavely and Mt Ararat assets are
successfully developed, the biggest long-term risk to the future profitability of Stavely Minerals is the
copper price. Analyst predicts fall in price
The benchmark three-month copper contract on the London Metals Exchange was last priced at
$US6430 ($7074) a tonne. Goldman Sachs analysts forecast the LME copper price will fall to
$US6200 a tonne over the 12 months to March 2015.
"The copper market is likely to remain in surplus over the next two to three years, and some weaker
than expected China data has made people nervous in recent months but the demand outlook for
copper beyond 2017 still looks strong," Mr Chesters said.
The value of the Australian dollar is another important risk factor that is outside the company's control.
If the offer is fully subscribed directors will control 66 per cent of the company with their shares held in
escrow for two years. At listing the company will have a market capitalisation of $15 million. Investors
in the IPO risk the future dilution of their shares.
The board plans to come back to market to raise more equity in two years once the exploratory drilling
is complete to fund the development phase. There is no expectation of a dividend in the foreseeable
future.

rldaus : Integra Mining Limited | slvkrc : Silver Lake Resources Ltd | smccqp : Stavely Minerals Ltd.
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22472 : Precious Metals | i2114 : Copper Ore/Nickel Ore Mining | iinv :
Investing/Securities | i22 : Primary Metals | i224 : Non-ferrous Metals | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | ifinal : Financial Services | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i2112 : Gold Ore/Silver Ore
Mining
c1711 : Initial Public Offerings | c14 : Stock Listings | mcopp : Copper Markets | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | reqris : Suggested Reading Investing/Securities | c02 : Corporate Changes
| c17 : Funding/Capital | c171 : Share Capital | cactio : Corporate Actions | m14 : Commodity Markets |
m142 : Metals Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mnonfr : Non-ferrous Metals | ncat
: Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News
Filter | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140323ea3o0002b

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page38of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.