Welcome, huddled and rich

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Welcome, huddled and rich

JOHN DAGGE
352 words
6 March 2014
Gold Coast Bulletin
GCBULL
GoldCoast
27
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

VICTORIA is the destination of choice for foreigners seeking to fast-track residency by investing $5
million.

The state accounts for more than half of all Significant Investor Visas issued in the first 12 months of
the controversial program being launched.

Some 88 visas were issued in the year to December, with Victoria accounting for the lion’s share with
49, a breakdown of government figures show. Nine of every 10 visas went to rich Chinese investors.

NSW was the next-most popular state, accounting for 26 SIVs. The program fast-tracks the path to
permanent residency for foreigners who park $5 million in state government bonds or selected
property projects.

Visa recipients do not need to pass the usual points tests for skills and language and become eligible
for a permanent visa after four years.

All up, the program has raised $440 million.
It has, however, upset refugee advocates, who claim it allows the rich to buy their way to the top of the
residency queue.

Approvals have surged under the new Federal government, with close to 90 per cent of all SIVs
approved since Tony Abbott came to power.

Another 33 SIVs were approved in January – the largest monthly figure on record – but a
state-by-state breakdown of those figures was not available.

KordaMentha managing director Berrick Wilson said the Victorian government had made an effort to
target high-net-worth individuals. The investment firm has launched a new fund which provides
commercial real estate investment opportunities for SIV holders.
“The reality is that Victoria and NSW have historically always been the state of choice for Chinese
immigrants in the past but Victoria in particular has done a very good job of marketing this program,”
he said.

Mr Wilson said that the bulk of money flowing into the state via SIVs was generally being put into
government bonds and his fund aims to provide a more diverse range of investment opportunities.“Our
fund targets core and core-plus commercial real estate – low volatility, income producing
commercial real estate,” he said.

NS
RE

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

Page102of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB
AN

News Ltd.
Document GCBULL0020140305ea360000q

Page103of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.