FED:Goodman Fielder accepts lower takeover bid

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

FED:Goodman Fielder accepts lower takeover bid

482 words
2 July 2014
Australian Associated Press Financial News Wire
AAPFIN
English
(c) 2014 Australian Associated Press Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved

GOODMAN SYDNEY, July 2 AAP - Shares in struggling food maker Goodman Fielder have dropped
more than four per cent on news it is poised to accept a lower takeover offer from two Asian
companies.
The Hong Kong-based investment firm First Pacific and Singapore agribusiness Wilmar International
have agreed to buy the breads-and-spreads maker for $1.34 billion, or 67.5 cents a share.

The offer is 2.5 cents a share lower than their previous offer made in May, which valued Goodman
Fielder at $1.37 billion.

But Goodman Fielder shareholders will receive a one cent dividend from the food ingredients maker,
whose brands include Helga's, MeadowLea, Vogel's and Olive Grove.

The three companies have signed a scheme implementation deed which will allow the foreign
predators to buy the remaining shares in Goodman that they do not already own.
The news came as Goodman also warned that it expects to be hit by a $300-$400 million charge in its
accounts for the 2013/14 financial year.
The charge relates to the challenging trading conditions the company has been experiencing and the
outlook for its baking and grocery businesses.

Shares in Goodman were 2.75 cents lower at 64.25 cents at 1124 AEST.
Goodman Fielder chairman Steve Gregg said the food maker's board was unanimous in
recommending shareholders accept the takeover offer, describing the bid as attractive.

"I believe it also represents a positive outcome for our employees, our customers and our consumers,"
he said in a statement on Wednesday.

"It provides an opportunity to further leverage our strong consumer food brands in Australia and New
Zealand to grow our business across the Asian region."

Goodman will appoint an independent expert to examine the offer, with shareholders expected to vote
on the deal in November.
The offer will need support from Goodman shareholders holding at least 75 per cent of the company's
shares.
It also requires the nod of approval from Australia's Foreign Investment Review Board and authorities
in New Zealand and China.
It is the third time Wilmar, the world's biggest palm oil processor, and the Hong Kong-listed First
Pacific have made an offer for Goodman in 2014.
The Asian pair, which each own 19.9 per cent stakes in Goodman, originally offered $1.27 billion in
April but were rebuffed by the takeover target.
They came back with a sweetened $1.37 billion offer in May, which was accepted by Goodman.

Page56of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.But late on Tuesday, they revealed they had lowered their offer to $1.34 billion after spending recent
weeks looking at Goodman's books.

Goodman Fielder has been cost cutting, restructuring and divesting over the past three years, to focus
on its core brands, which include Vogel's bread and Meadowlea butter and margarine, and to reduce
debt.

AAP bt/cdh

CO
IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

fdgl : Goodman Fielder Ltd
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp : Consumer Goods
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cacqu : Acquisitions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New
South Wales
Australian Associated Press Pty Ltd
Document AAPFIN0020140702ea72000ji

Page57of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.