Liberals deny housing probe is anti- Chinese

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Liberals deny housing probe is anti-Chinese

Jacob Greber, Samantha Hutchinson and John Kerin
600 words
18 March 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
7
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

A high-profile parliamentary inquiry into foreign buyers of Australian property will not be an
anti-Chinese inquisition, according to Liberal MP Kelly O'Dwyer.
Speaking as a prominent immigration lawyer specialising in Chinese clients said the inquiry was a
knee-jerk reaction to rising house prices, Ms O'Dwyer said the hearing was not something that should
be "whipped up into a frenzy."

"It's not focused on any particular country and it would be quite wrong to say that it is," she said on
Monday.

Ms O'Dwyer said the committee would take a broad review of foreign investment rules as they related
to residential real estate.
The Australia China Business Council called on the Abbott government to raise the threshold at
which Chinese investments attracts scrutiny to $1 billion, as part of efforts to clinch a free trade deal.
Concern about foreign investment in property has grown in recent months, with property prices
surging in many parts of Sydney and anecdotal evidence that Chinese buyers are flooding
the market.

Reserve Bank of Australia governor Glenn Stevens this month said it was up to politicians to respond
to community concerns about Asian investors buying Australian property, likening Chinese activity
in Sydney to wealthy Russians buying in London.

Ms O'Dwyer said the inquiry would be a "bit of good housekeeping" that would, among other things,
check that national policies were ensuring enough new homes were being built while maintaining
affordability.Nationals accuse Liberals of hypocrisy

Nationals MPs accused Liberal MPs of hypocrisy over the issue, saying they weren't interested in the
impact of Chinese buyers when they snapped up agricultural assets.
Immigration lawyer Lily Ong said concerns about Chinese buyers freezing first-home buyers out of
the market were misplaced.
"We've always had the [Foreign Investment Review Board] approval restrictions; nothing has
changed in the past couple of years to make it any easier. It is still not very simple for [Chinese from
the People's Republic of China] to make purchases in Australia," she said.'Ultra-high-net-worth
people'
Moelis managing director Andrew Pridham – who runs one of the biggest funds approved for Chinese
investors – said the government's Significant Investor Visa program was unlikely to have an impact on
the first-home buyer market.

Page301of315©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."These are ultra-high-net-worth people. They're certainly not competing with first-home buyers," he
said.

Another member of the economics committee, Labor's Ed Husic, said the inquiry should examine
shadow banking in China and its potential impact on property markets in Australia.

"As long [the inquiry] is done with either a focus on efficiency and done rationally it could yield some
interesting insights," he said.
China Business Council president Duncan Calder said the Chinese were looking to ensure equal
treatment for Chinese investment in Australia, as the nations work on a trade agreement.
"Anything we can do to encourage Chinese investment on a level playing field is going to be a
positive for the Australian economy and provide the investment dollars that we need to develop the
nation, to build the infrastructure across multiple sectors," he said during a break from confidential
talks in Canberra on Monday, which were addressed by Prime Minister Tony Abbott and Trade
Minister Andrew Robb.
Key points The parliamentary inquiry into Chinese property investors is not racist, says Liberal MP
Kelly O'Dwyer. Nationals MPs have accused the Liberals of hypocrisy over the issue of property
investment by foreigners.

KEY POINTS

KEY POINTS

KEY POINTS

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gimm : Asylum/Immigration | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140317ea3i0000i

Page302of315©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.