DATA ROOM

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
DATA ROOM

Edited by Gretchen Friemann, additional reporting by Maggie Lu Yueyang
1,212 words
12 November 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
22
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Origin to renegotiate $6.6bn bank loan facility ORIGIN Energy is seeking to renegotiate a $6.6 billion
bank facility secured last year in an effort to capitalise on benign credit markets and the bullish outlook
for its Australia-Pacific LNG project in Queensland, which is due to start production in mid-2015.
The company has appointed National Australia Bank, ANZ, Commonwealth Bank and the Japanese
lender, Mizuho, as lead arrangers to this latest deal, that will reduce the lending margin and extend the
tenor of the debt.

All four institutions hold large stakes in the facility, with the typical loan size ranging between $500
million and $700m.

Origin declined to comment on the negotiations but the fresh terms are expected to be finalised by the
end of the year. According to sources, the loan margin on the facility will be cut by 25 to 30 basis points
while the four- and five-year repayment horizons will be reissued, effectively extending both tranches
by over a year.

Origin’s aggressive move to cut its debt costs, less than 18 months after negotiating one of the biggest
corporate refinancing deals in Australia’s history, highlights the intensifying competition among banks
as borrowers take advantage of record low interest rates and resurgent investor demand in the
higher-yielding US term loan B markets. One source claimed Origin is likely to receive uniform
acceptance from its 30-odd lending syndicate, with only one offshore institution so far in doubt.

Yet while the dearth of corporate deal flow is one factor driving lenders to accept less favourable terms,
much of the support for Origin stems from the company’s bullish earnings prospects. Once in full
production, the APLNG project in Gladstone is projected to increase distributable income by around
$US1bn ($1.16bn) a year, according to recent management forecasts. As one source pointed out,
“virtually every bank will want to roll over this debt. It’s not just the low deal flow, this is also a company
specific situation given the amount of money APNG will be pumping out from next year”.

Origin will have to pay a repricing fee of around 15 basis points, as well as an extension fee on the
facility which hit $8.6bn last year. That figure was whittled down by $2bn after the company issued two
separate debt tranches. At the time, Origin’s refinancing ranked as the second largest ever structured
in Australia, with ANZ, Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Goldman Sachs, J.P. Morgan and UBS all
underwriting the deal. It has since been eclipsed by the gargantuan $22bn Westfield refinancing.

Origin’s decision to change its bank facility follows the issuance of a €1bn ($1.4bn) hybrid note in
September to help finance the $US600m Poseidon gas reserve off the coast of Western Australia.

Goodman back on top SPECULATION on the timing of block trades has always been a favoured sport
in financial circles. A steady share price increase often signals an imminent move and so it’s no
surprise listed warehouser Goodman Group is back at the top of the watch list.

Page79of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.China’s sovereign wealth fund, China Investment Corporation, owns almost 9.9 per cent of the stock
and has little interest in holding it for the long term, given its stated preference for direct real estate
exposure. An exit then is inevitable. The question is when.

According to investor sources two banks pitched CIC for a mandate last week but were rebuffed.

While this may reflect CIC’s determination to retain the exposure in the short-term, others believe the
fund may already have drafted in a bank. Goldman Sachs, which executed a $521 million exit in
December 2012 for CIC, remains in pole position for a second trade.
That deal, equating to 6.9 per cent of Goodman’s register, more than doubled the Chinese funds’ initial
investment made in 2009 when the ructions unleashed by the global financial crisis forced the property
landlord into a deeply discounted equity raise. CIC also helped prop up the trust with the purchase of
a hybrid note that converted to equity.

Goodman’s share price rise has been substantial. Goodman’s security price closed last night at $5.73
and many in the market expect the trust to breach the next psychological price barrier of $5.80. If it
breaches that level talk about a looming exit by CIC is likely to hit fever pitch.

Hedge funds are also keeping a watching brief on Spotless, the cleaning and catering contractor that
was listed earlier this year by Pacific Equity Partners. While the private equity firm agreed to lock up
its stake until the release of the 2015 financial year results, in-built trigger points mean part of the
escrow may lapse next week.

Strong market debut APN Outdoor’s solid debut yesterday marks another successful IPO for Quadrant
Private Equity but has sparked concerns in some corners about the depth of investor appetite for the
sector.

Shares in the stock closed at $2.65 yesterday, up from the issue price of $2.55. While the listing drew a
strong line up of long-only fund managers, some in the industry questioned whether the appetite would
extend to APN’s rival oOh Media, owned by Champ private equity. A float has been mooted for early
next year although Nine Entertainment has also been circling as it aims to diversify its media portfolio.
Quadrant has retained a 20 per cent stake in APN and has signed up to an escrow until the release of
next year’s results.

Recall’s defensive play RECALL Holdings may use its mooted conversion to a US-based real estate
investment trust as part of a play to pump up the company’s value if Iron Mountain decides to push
the button on a takeover approach.
If it moves ahead with the conversion, Recall would be going down the same path as Iron Mountain, its
biggest competitor in the storage and information-management industry, which received approval from
US authorities to become an REIT in June. The proposed REIT conversion could also be used as a
defence lever by Recall.
Bloomberg reported in September that the Boston-based Iron Mountain was considering an offer to
buy Recall for more than $US2 billion ($2.3bn). But Recall said it was not in takeover discussions with
any potential buyers.
However, many still believe there is a logical and compelling deal for Iron Mountain to take over Recall
in terms of market share and cost synergies. Therefore, it certainly makes sense for Recall to lift its
value before sitting down at the negotiation table.

REITs pay out a large proportion of their earnings to investors in the form of dividends, but can also
benefit from related tax exemptions.
The conversion to REIT adds at least 30 per cent to Iron Mountain’s value, according to estimates by
CBA analysts.

Macquarie said in a note earlier this month that a REIT conversion could add as much as $1.40 per
share to the company’s valuation, but also warned the transformation could be complex.

Edited by Gretchen Friemann, additional reporting by Maggie Lu Yueyang

CO
IN

boral : Origin Energy Ltd
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas

Page80of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

RE
PUB
AN

c173 : Financing Agreements | m131 : Money Markets | c17 : Funding/Capital | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | m13 : Money/Forex Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News |
ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141111eabc0003r

Page81of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.