JPMorgan Sees Southern Cross Changing for the Better -- Market Talk

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

JPMorgan Sees Southern Cross Changing for the Better -- Market Talk

1,471 words
31 October 2014
09:00
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

18:00 EDT - Recent talent changes at Southern Cross Media (SXL.AU) are positive but investors should
note there's a lag-time between increased ratings and revenue, says JPMorgan. The broker likes the
return of comedy duo Hamish and Andy to Drive from July 2015, as they bring a strong track record of
performance and advertiser support. Still, it may take time to re-build their strong brand and the ratings
pickup will only take place in FY16. JPM also thinks installing a new breakfast team at Today FM makes
sense, given the steep drop in ratings share since Kyle & Jackie O left the station. SXL last at A$0.92,
below JPMorgan's A$1.08/share price target. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

17:56 EDT - Macquarie's (MQG.AU) half-year results overall look strong, says Omkar Joshi, investment
analyst at Watermark Funds Management. Profit was ahead of consensus expectations at A$678M,
which Joshi says was largely driven by large performance fees and stronger interest income. That was
partially offset by weaker trading income. He says the market-facing divisions--securities, capital, and
fixed-income, currencies and commodities--all came in about 24% lower than consensus expectations.
MQG has guided the market to expect its FY15 result to be "slightly up" on FY14, and Joshi notes that
the market currently has 9% growth penciled in, which looks significantly higher than guidance.
(robb.stewart@wsj.com; @RobbMStewart)

17:50 EDT - As part of Starbucks's (SBUX) planned nationwide rollout next year of mobile ordering and
payment, the coffee chain is planning to offer food and beverage delivery in certain markets during 2H
2015. The ability to order and pay ahead for coffee and food marks SBUX's latest effort to protect its
brick-and-mortar sales amid an environment of increasing online shopping. "Imagine the ability to create
a standing order of Starbucks delivered hot to your desk daily," SBUX CEO Howard Schultz tells
investors on this evening's earnings call. "That's our version of e-commerce on steroids."
(julie.jargon@wsj.com)

17:49 EDT - Kansas City Fed President Esther George owes San Francisco Fed President John Williams
a selection of barbecue sauces from her region and a gift from Kansas City's Negro Leagues Baseball
Museum after coming down on the losing end of a World Series bet. The San Francisco Giants beat the
Kansas City Royals in the series Wednesday night. A Kansas City Fed spokesman confirmed a wager
between the two Fed officials. Had he lost, Mr. Williams would have owed Ms. George a selection of
wines from his district. "We congratulate San Francisco and Kansas City on an exciting series," the
spokesman said. (jon.hilsenrath@wsj.com)

17:43 EDT - Shares of Boot Barn Holdings (BOOT) rose 9% to close trading at $17.45 after the Freeman
Spogli-backed retail chain specializing in Western-style apparel priced its IPO of 5M shares at $16 each,
raising $90M. BOOT priced its IPO on the high end of its $14-$16 estimated range. Los Angeles P-E
firmFreeman Spogli acquired Boot Barn in 2011 from another California P-E firmMarwit Capital.
Assuming the full exercise of the underwriters' option, Freeman Spogli is expected to reduce its BOOT
stake to 69.1% from 89.1% after the IPO. (chitra.vemuri@wsj.com)

The Fed's Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility closed for new loan extensions in 2010 and the
portfolio peaked at $48.19B in loans on the Fed's balance sheet. "US Fed Closes Chapter on Another
Crisis-Era Program -- Market Talk," at 4:45 pm EDT, incorrectly states that the TALF portfolio peaked at
$857M in January 2013.

Page339of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.17:40 EDT - A survey of TD Ameritrade's largest registered investment advisory firms that use its
services showed that 72% of those advisers, who manage more than $1B in client assets, expect further
industry consolidation in the coming year, while 10% said they expect a "significant" bump ahead. But
two-thirds of respondents would rather buy than sell, saying they don't expect to sell or merge at any
time in the future. The biggest driver behind consolidation appears to be a smooth succession, with more
than half of those surveyed indicating that they want their firms better positioned for a leadership change.
(michael.wursthorn@wsj.com; @4BetterOrWurst)
17:24 EDT - Origin Energy (ORG.AU) deals a blow to sentiment around its Australia Pacific LNG venture
with ConocoPhillips (COP) in Queensland state by telling investors on a tour of the site that non-operated
capex has exceeded its expectations, says JPMorgan. "While we were reassured by the company that
the increase did not exceed the materiality threshold, we expect that sentiment will be impacted
nonetheless," bank says, which rates Origin at overweight with a A$16.00/share price target. Still, capex
for the remainder of fiscal 2015 is likely in line with JPMorgan's forecast of around A$3B. "On the key
issue of schedule and timing of first LNG, the company remains firmly of the view that current guidance
of 'mid-2015' is achievable," the broker says. ORG last traded at A$14.23. (david.winning@wsj.com;
@dwinningWSJ)

17:18 EDT - Bearish cattle futures traders often argue that as livestock and beef prices climb to new
record highs, consumers will be more inclined to swap burgers and steaks for less expensive proteins.
As U.S. live-cattle futures climb to new peaks again Thursday, settling at $1.7050 a pound, one analyst
calls bull. Mark Schultz, chief analyst of brokerage Northstar Commodity, says even if some consumers
shift from beef to pork and poultry, demand from many food shoppers is more inelastic. He counts
himself in the latter category, adding, "I had chicken last night and today I'm thinking, I can't give up beef
to stick with this" every night. (Kelsey.Gee@wsj.com; @kelseykgee)

17:13 EDT - The number of small US firms anticipating higher profits hit a 30-month high this month,
according to a survey of 816 businesses with less than $20M in annual revenue. The October
WSJ/Vistage small-business profit-growth index rose to 153.0, from 152.0 in September and 139.0 a
year ago, with 61% of respondents expecting profitability to improve in the year ahead, up from 60% in
September. Another 75% are expecting revenue gains, down from 77%, but holding steady from the start
of the year. The results "suggest that small firms are more confident about their own financial prospects"
than in the broader economy, says University of Michigan researcher Richard Curtin.
(angus.loten@wsj.com)

17:10 EDT - Moody's is cautious on the future performance fees of alternative managers like KKR, Apollo
(APO), Oaktree (OAK), Carlyle (CG) and Blackstone (BX) because the "combination of loose credit and
high valuations typically result in lower returns." The ratings firm says the median enterprise value paid
by private-equity firms for companies larger than $250M was 14.3 times Ebitda, citing PitchBook data.
"Pressures to deploy record dry powder over the next 4 to 5 years could potentially force hundreds of
billions of dollars to be invested at expensive multiples," observes Moody's, which adds that the risk will
likely be exacerbated as leading PE firms would be competing for deals during the same period. Global
private-equity "dry powder" topped $1.1 trillion in 2Q, according to Preqin. Private-equity managers are
incentivized to deploy funds by the end of a pre-set investment period to maximize fees, Moody's says.
(Gillian.Tan@wsj.com; @GillianTan)

17:07 EDT - Expedia's (EXPE) initial pop is deflating after hours as executives detail aggressive
marketing efforts that could pressure profitability for years. Prices have been low at discount booking site
Hotwire.com and China's eLong, CEO Dara Khosrowshahi says during the analysts' call, while the online
travel agent's flagship brand is spending heavily to reward members of its loyalty program. "We're
building a loyal base of longtime customers, and we're paying for it upfront," he says. The same goes for
promotions aimed at gaining share relatively young markets, like China. EXPE up 1.9% at $82.25 after
hours. (andrew.fitzgerald@wsj.com; @drewfitzgerald)

To contact the Market Talk Editors,
Kevin Kingsbury, 212 416-2354, kevin.kingsbury@wsj.com
Cynthia Lin, 212 416-4403, Cynthia.lin@wsj.com
John Shipman, 212 416-2181, john.shipman@wsj.com
Patrick Sullivan, 212 416-2326, Patrick.sullivan@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

October 30, 2014 18:00 ET (22:00 GMT)

CO

macqmd : Southern Cross Media Group Limited | cnyc : JPMorgan Chase & Co.

Page340of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN
NS

RE

ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | imed : Media/Entertainment
ecat : Economic News | namt : All Market Talk | ndjmt : Dow Jones Market Talk | neqac : Equities Asset
Class News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters
usa : United States | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North
America

PUB Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
AN

Document DJDN000020141030eaau004yy

Page341of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.