Glencore's Ivan Glasenberg still has his eye on Rio

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

popular
Glencore's Ivan Glasenberg still has his eye on Rio

JAMES CHESSELL - AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL REVIEW
360 words
7 November 2014
Singleton Argus
FSINGA
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

For those keeping score it is now exactly five months until Glencore could have another crack at Rio
Tinto.

"

Most observers in London believe this is exactly what Glencore chief executive Ivan Glasenberg will do
at some point after a compulsory six-month cooling off period expires in early April.
This may well be the case. But Glasenberg will need to use all his cunning to get any $US160 billion
($190 billion) deal over the line.

For all the talk about the financial pros and cons of combining two of the world's largest resources
companies, the real problem will be getting the Australian government to approve the transaction.
Because the bottom line is Treasurer Joe Hockey is highly unlikely to sign off on a straight merger. Tax
and China mean it won't happen.

It all began back in July when Glasenberg phoned Rio chairman Jan du Plessis to informally propose a
merger of equals that would create a resource giant bigger than BHP Billiton.

Glasenberg was informed in August that the Rio board was against the idea.

Early last month the approach became public promptingGlencore to say it was no longer interested in
a deal. UK takeover laws means the Swiss company has to stick to its word for at least half a year.
Nobody in the mining industry " including those working for Rio " think this is the end of the matter.

"This is likely just a shot across the bow .".". we expect Glencore to play the long game with any highly
desired acquisition target," RBC Capital Markets analyst Tim Huff told the Financial Times in early
October.

Glasenberg is a voracious deal doer. It is only 18 months since he pulled off an ambitious $US90
billion merger with mining house Xstrata. There is a lot for him to like at Rio, especially its highly
efficient and highly profitable iron ore operations in the Pilbara. Glencore has a quality coal business
but its portfolio is not as strong as its Anglo-Australian rival.

CO
IN

RE
PUB
AN

march : Glencore PLC | rtz : Rio Tinto PLC | rtzcra : Rio Tinto Group | craaus : Rio Tinto Ltd
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources
| ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | imet : Mining/Quarrying
nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FSINGA0020141108eab700002

Page59of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.