Rinehart set to sign in $65m Kimberley spree

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

PrimeSpace
Rinehart set to sign in $65m Kimberley spree

KYLAR LOUSSIKIAN, RURAL
342 words
27 November 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
26
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

GINA Rinehart’s Hancock Prospecting is close to finalising the purchase of four Kimberley cattle
stations worth $65 million in a deal that would see her end up with nearly 1.5 million hectares across
Western Australia.

The acquisitions come only months after Mrs Rinehart, Australia’s richest person, took control of a
half-stake in the vast Liveringa and Nerrima cattle stations in the Kimberley through a joint venture
with the Laitt family’s private Downford Investments, which owns the state’s biggest agribusiness,
Milne AgriGroup. That deal was worth about $40m, and is expected to double the beef cattle
production across the two stations, largely bound for the Asian export market.

Mrs Rinehart’s purchases — Moola Bulla, Mount Amhurst, Beefwood Park and Shamrock Station —
cover 1.037 million ha and are being sold by the South African Western Australian Pastoral Company.

The purchases are dependent on securing increased stocking densities across the properties, a
request being assessed by the state Pastoral Board.
Slowing Chinese demand for iron ore and coal has led a number of mining giants — including Rio
Tinto and Andrew Forrest’s Fortescue Metals — to hedge their bets, diversifying into agribusiness that
would benefit from booming demand for beef and veal. In May, Mr Forrest acquired Harvey Beef for
more than $30m while Rio Tinto has six ranches covering more than 1.5 million hectares in Western
Australia.

Agribusiness asset transactions recorded their strongest half year in more than a decade for the six
months ending June, with more than 20 deals announced worth around $3 billion.
The recently signed free-trade agreement with China is expected to provide an $11bn boost to the
industry, according to Meat & Livestock Australia.

A number of substantial cattle properties remain on the market, including Legune Station in the
Kimberley, a sprawling 180,000ha property with a carrying capacity of 32,000 head of cattle.Legune
Station is being marketed by Colliers International agents Rawdon Briggs and Thomas Warriner.

CO
IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

hkpros : Hancock Prospecting Pty. Ltd.
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Shareholdings | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions |
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry
News Filter
austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020150417eabr000au

Page71of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Page72of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.