Lib scandal poll fear The unfolding NSW Liberal Party donation scandal is set to...

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Lib scandal poll fear The unfolding NSW Liberal Party donation scandal is set to...

By The Canberra Times
486 words
1 May 2014
Canberra Times
CANBTZ
A004
English
(c) 2014 The Canberra Times

Lib scandal poll fear The unfolding NSW Liberal Party donation scandal is set to threaten the party's
chances at the polls, a veteran MP says. Hours after state upper house member Charlie Lynn made his
prediction that the "peddlers of influence, the snake-oil spivs that inhabit the party" would hurt public
confidence in the Liberals, NSW Premier Mike Baird vowed to purge wrongdoers from his ranks. The
Independent Commission Against Corruption is investigating claims former Liberal cabinet minister Chris
Hartcher funnelled $400,000 in donations through "sham" company Eightbyfive, and that the secret
donors were rewarded with political favours. It is alleged Tim Koelma, a staffer of Mr Hartcher, asked his
brother Eric to help him lodge a false corruption complaint against then Sydney Water managing director
Kerry Schott, who was locked in a dispute with alleged donor Australian Water Holdings.

$1.75b boost for NSW

The NSW government is set to make a "monumentous" $1.75 billion from the sale of the Port of
Newcastle. A consortium comprising Hastings Funds Management and China Merchants won the
98-year lease in what Premier Mike Baird described as "an amazing result". "There's obviously more
announcements to come but the firepower of NSW just got stronger," he said.

Skateboarder hit A skateboarder could be permanently brain damaged after being injured in a suspected
hit and run in Sydney's east. The 26-year-old man was hit by a car while skating home down a steep, wet
Bronte street early on Wednesday. About half an hour later, a suspect was stopped by police in
Chatswood, but released after being charged with drug offences. Forensic specialists are examining his
car, which has signs of damage. The skateboarder was found lying unconscious in the middle of the road
by a passing motorist and was treated by paramedics before being taken to StVincent's Hospital, where
he remains in a critical condition with head injuries.

Thorpe on mend Ian Thorpe has been released from hospital following complications from shoulder
surgery. The swimming legend spent time in an intensive care ward during the past month while battling
serious infections, contracted while in hospital. Thorpe's manager, James Erskine, has confirmed the
Olympian has left hospital but revealed no other details.

Honey sting A Queensland beekeepers' club has become the latest to be stung by hive hustlers keen to
capitalise on increasing honey prices. Not even the threat of 240,000 bees has put off the sticky-handed
bandits who reportedly stole 12 hives containing more than 480 kilos of honey. The haul could potentially
net almost $2000 as wholesale honey prices reach $4 a kilogram, the highest in years. The alleged theft
has devastated the Ipswich & West Moreton Beekeepers' Association, which uses its honey to raise
money for charity.

RF
CO
NS

RE

56323557
icmagc : Independent Commission Against Corruption
gpol : Domestic Politics | gcha : Charities | gassa : Assault | gcat : Political/General News | gcom :
Society/Community/Work | gcrim : Crime/Courts | gpir : Politics/International Relations
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania

Page274of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB Federal Capital Press of Australia Pty Ltd
AN

Document CANBTZ0020140430ea510001k

Page275of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.