Vic union a big party donor

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Vic union a big party donor

Lucille Keen
565 words
28 November 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
9
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Victoria's militant construction union was the second-biggest union donor to the state's Labor Party
over the last three years, pitching in $542,191.
The Construction, Forestry, Mining and Energy Union was the third-biggest donor to the party
overall in the 2012-13 financial year, donating $181,463.

It was topped by the Labor Services Holdings Trust, and a $3.6 million Zhongfu Investments – a
Chinese property developer whose "donation" was the proceeds from the sale of the Labor Party's
Victorian branch head office.

The CFMEU declined to comment and Opposition Leader Daniel Andrews won't disassociate the
party from the union.

The most recent opinion poll by Galaxy found Labor leading the Coalition 52 to 48 percentage points.

Mr Andrews remains committed to abolishing the state's building and construction code if elected, but
has denied it was because of pressure from the CFMEU.

He asserts he will wait for the findings of the Royal Commission and the Australian Competition and
Consumer Commission legal action, before commenting.
"I'm not going to interfere and trample on that process," he said. "If action is required I will not
hesitate to take that action."

The union has already been found in contempt of a Supreme Court injunction for conducting an
illegal blockade at Grocon's Myer Emporium site. It got $1.25 million in penalties.

In the absence of the Victorian building code, in order to receive federal funding for major projects
the state will be required to adhere to the federal building code.

Shadow Treasurer Tim Pallas said the federal government had "played that trick" before.

He said the building industry was a national industry that the federal government should be
responsible for regulating. "Ultimately it is a matter the federal government seeks to manage and
regulate," he said.

"We don't see why the state of Victoria would then seek to duplicate processes. We want the
opportunity to form government and to talk to the federal government about the application of the
code and what funds they would make available to the state of Victoria."

In the Labor Party's election commitment costings, released on Thursday, the party spruiked the
$8.4 million saving it would have from disbanding the Construction Code Compliance Unit.

Page49of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Federal Employment Minister Eric Abetz told the parliament on Thursday about "the CFMEU-inspired
policy of Daniel Andrews to abolish Victoria's construction code".

He said four major infrastructure projects in Victoria are reliant on federal funding.
"No code, no funding," he said. "So Labor threatens Victoria with a loss of billions of dollars for vital
infrastructure projects. So this is the cost to Victorians for Daniel Andrews' unseemly association with
John Setka and the CFMEU."

The figures of donations for the last financial year, 2013-14, will not be publicly available until
February.

Only contributions greater than $11,200 are subject to disclosure under the Commonwealth Electoral
Act and Victoria does not have a disclosure policy, although all parties must lodge with the Victorian
Election Commission a copy of their federal annual return, which refers to the $50,000 cap on any
donations received from casinos and gambling licensees.

Key points The CFMEU has made major donations to Labor over three years. Daniel Andrews will
wait for commission findings before commenting on scrapping Vic building code.

CO
NS
RE
PUB
AN

cufymu : Construction, Forestry, Mining and Energy Union
gpol : Domestic Politics | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations
austr : Australia | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141127eabs0001i

Page50of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.