Upbeat Alcoa sees $109m closure cost

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Upbeat Alcoa sees $109m closure cost

Peter Ker
554 words
10 July 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
26
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

The closure of several Australian operations is set to cost Alcoa as much as $109 million before the
year is finished, according to the aluminium giant.
Alcoa revealed it had already spent $49 million on ''initial closure activities'' at the Point Henry
Smelter near Geelong and a rolling mill in New South Wales, both of which had their demise
confirmed in February.

Speaking during the company's upbeat June quarter results in the US on Wednesday, Alcoa chief
financial officer William Oplinger said another $50 million to $60 million of closure costs were
expected from the Australian operations before the end of 2014.

Point Henry is due to close in August, while the rolling mills at Geelong and Yennora in New South
Wales are expected to continue operating until just before Christmas.
The closure of Point Henry means a coal mine at Anglesea in Victoria is no longer required, and
Alcoa has been investigating how to make money from the asset, either through a sale or by selling
power into the grid. Alcoa already sells excess power into the grid in Brazil, Tennessee and North
Carolina, and chief executive Klaus Kleinfeld said the company has started dealing with regulators in
Australia about the future of the Anglesea mine.

The closure of unprofitable assets like Point Henry has been a key plank in Alcoa's revival, with the
$US138 million ($147 million) of net income being better than the March quarter, and the June
quarter in 2013.
Revenues were 7 per cent higher than the March quarter at $US5.8 billion. The company has also
benefited from improving aluminium prices and its focus on the aviation and vehicle sectors. Alcoa
spent $US2.85 billion buying British aerospace supplier Firth Rixson in June.
After several years in the doldrums on the back of excess production in China, aluminium producers
like Alcoa and Rio Tinto have started to express renewed confidence in the sector during 2014.

Part of that renewed confidence is linked to a ban on certain raw mineral exports from Indonesia,
which is blunting rival aluminium producers in China. The policy has made it harder for Chinese
producers to access Indonesia's cheap bauxite, putting them at a disadvantage to producers like
Alcoa and Rio who have access to their own bauxite supply.

Mr Kleinfeld said he had been ''positively surprised'' by how strictly Indonesia had enforced the ban
since its introduction in January. Presidential elections are under way in Indonesia this week, and Mr
Kleinfeld said the main candidates appeared likely to continue with the export ban unchanged.
''This is changing the supply dynamics in China,'' he said.

Page237of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The encouraging result for Alcoa did not quite flow over to its Australian joint venture partner, Alumina
Ltd, which owns 40 per cent of 20 assets in the global bauxite, alumina and aluminium sector. Its
margins were weighed down by high currencies in Australia and Brazil, where important operations
are based.
Citi expects Alumina Ltd to post a loss of $US80 million for the first half of 2014; the stock closed 3¢
lower at $1.41.

Key points Closing unprofitable assets such as Point Henry has been key in Alcoa's revival.
Indonesia's ban on raw mineral exports gives Alcoa an advantage in China.

CO
IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

almam : ALCOA Inc
i22 : Primary Metals | i224 : Non-ferrous Metals | i2245 : Aluminum | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz
: Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140709ea7a0000a

Page238of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.