Hancock signs over Rhodes ore

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Hancock signs over Rhodes ore

Nick Evans
418 words
28 May 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
Second
1
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

The marathon battle for control of the giant Rhodes Ridge iron ore deposit in the Pilbara is finally
over, with Gina Rinehart’s Hancock Prospecting believed to have signed over its 25 per cent interest
to the heirs of her father’s business partner.
Wright Prospecting, the family company of Peter Wright, launched its claim over the 5.3 billion
tonne iron ore project in 1997 and the battle between the two companies has been before the courts
since at least 2001.

The long-running struggle for one of the Pilbara’s richest undeveloped iron ore deposits effectively
ended last September when the High Court refused to hear an appeal by Mrs Rinehart over
successive decisions of WA’s Supreme Court. The High Court stance effectively closed off her last
hope of retaining her quarter-stake interest in the project.

But Wright Prospecting had to wait another eight months for enforcement of orders initially issued by
the Supreme Court in 2011, after a dispute about the order in which Wright should seek consents for
the transfer.

Neither Wright Prospecting nor Hancock responded to requests for comment yesterday.
But it is understood Mrs Rinehart’s company signed off on the deed of assignment for its share of
Rhodes Ridge yesterday, clearing the way for other approvals and for the WA Government to start
the process of making the required changes to the State Agreement covering the project.

Rio Tinto, which owns 50 per cent of Rhodes Ridge, is yet to flag it as a development option and
industry sources suggest the first option for Rio and Wright could be the Shovelanna deposit.

Shovelanna is a part of the broader Rhodes Ridge project but is closer to BHP Billiton’s Jimblebar
operations than any of Rio’s infrastructure. Sources suggest Shovelanna would be better held by
BHP as a feeder for a Jimblebar expansion, though a near-term deal was unlikely.

Mrs Rinehart may have relinquished her hold on Rhodes Ridge. However, Hancock is powering
ahead with its $10 billionRoy Hill development.

Australian Securities and Investments Commission records show Hancock’s Roy Hill partners have
closed out their equity contribution for the 55 million-tonne-a-year port, rail and mine project.
The records show POSCO, Marubeni and China Steel Corporation made a final $284.8 million
payment on their part-paid shares, having now contributed $3.65 billion to Roy Hill in exchange for a
combined 30 per cent stake.

CO

hkpros : Hancock Prospecting Pty. Ltd.

Page126of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | i22 : Primary Metals | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | i211 : Metal
Ore Mining | imet : Mining/Quarrying
gvsup : Judicial Branch | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol :
Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies
austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document TWAU000020140527ea5s0001v

Page127of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.