Peters sale to R&R  goes full circle

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Peters sale to R&R  goes full circle

Joyce Moullakis and Tim Binsted
843 words
14 June 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
40
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Inside the deal This ice-cream trade sale ended up with a cast of hundreds and thousands.

It was in October when Peters Ice Cream outlined its five new connoisseur stick flavours, and private
equity firmPacific Equity Partners (PEP) started seriously weighing an earlier than expected exit.

PEP had snapped up the business, founded in 1907, just 14 months earlier for about $245 million.
The typical private equity cycle involves holding portfolio companies for three to five years, but the cost
cutting and restructuring, coupled with revenue growth at Peters, was ahead of schedule. The release
of the new stick flavours to compete with the Magnum brands was also earlier than anticipated.

As the range of connoisseur sticks including the Murray River salted caramel flavour were hitting retail
freezers, the vendors were no doubt mindful the window for floats was ajar and trade sale conditions
were also holding up.

Some local companies in the food and beverage sector were at the time trading at favourable multiples,
including the now troubled Coca-Cola Amatil .

Investment banks, accounting firms and lawyers were asked to pitch for the work, with PEP managing
directors Tony Duthie and David Brown keeping a close watch on sale conditions. PEP director Andrew
Charlier was on hand and Peters was now being run by PEP-appointed Stephen Audsley, who ran
Breville Group for four years after 16 years at Pacific Brands.

Barclays had advised PEP on buying Peters but it was Morgan Stanley – which jointly advised PEP –
on the sale of poultry company Tegel and showed some commitment to steering a dual track process,
that scored the new role. Morgan Stanley 's Peter Brownie and Luke Boeg were on deck.

PEP also turned to PwC's Sean Gregory and on the legal side Allens partner Tom Story rolled up his
sleeves. The usual hiatus over the Christmas period and no doubt Audsley and his crew were
monitoring summer sales of Drumstick and Maxibon.

As 2014, got into full swing the pipeline for initial public offerings was filling to the brim, and Peters was
one of many names being touted as a candidate. Investors are, however, always wary of quick
turnarounds and exits by private equity vendors, particularly in consumer-related sectors. On the other
hand, for many potential Peters bidders, the 2012 sale process was still fresh in their minds. After the
shelving of the Mantra Group float and the 11th-hour trade sale of Sterling Education, the Peters trade
sale option accelerated.
Indicative offers lobbed in early April. Among those were dairy co-operative Murray Goulburn ,
Europe's R&R Ice Cream , Bail Capital, and a Chinese group. Murray Goulburn and R&R  (when it
was owned by Oaktree Capital) also participated in the 2012 sale, but lost out to PEP. This time round,
Murray Goulburn is thought to have opted out early.

Page219of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.R&R  – now owned by French buyout firmPAI Partners – turned to Rothschild for advice. The
independent advisory firm had looked after PAI  in its purchase of R&R , and since stayed close to the
company. R&R 's chief Ibrahim Najafi helped with assembling a deal team, and KPMG  provided
accounting and legal advice while Allen & Overy gave legal insights. After the indicative offers were
assessed – what began as a trade sale led dual track process, to use banker vernacular – started to
look more like a vanilla two-pronged process. The vendors and advisers assembled a board, led by
Peter Bush , Nine Entertainment Co 's chairman and former boss of McDonalds Australia.

In mid-to late April, Macquarie Capital was brought in to the fray as it became clear Peters would
become one of the year's few dual-track processes with some tension.

It was getting close to crunch time, pre-marketing research landed on the desks of fund managers
before the middle of May, and for trade buyers the deadline for final bids was May 21.

In the spirit of the potential IPO,  local fundies were treated with ice creams as they considered the
float. Investors on the global roadshow weren't as lucky.

About the same time as final bids came in, bankers upped the pressure on fund managers to pay up or
risk losing the asset. The prospectus was ready to go, and PEP was to retain a stake.

By Friday May 23, R&R  and Peters had entered exclusive talks, but a decision would go down to the
wire. The agreement was signed in the late hours of Sunday at a price of just under $450 million. That
reflected a multiple of 9 times forecast earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation. On
Monday, many of the team relaxed for lunch in Sydney at Woolloomooloo Wharf's China Doll. Word on
the street was that PEP secured a free lifetime supply of Peters ice cream for its office freezer in
Sydney. The deal is due to close at the end of June.

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

ricicl : R&R Ice Cream Ltd | paipar : PAI partners
i4123 : Poultry Processing | i8150203 : Private Equity | iinv : Investing/Securities | i41 :
Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i412 : Animal Slaughtering/Processing | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial
Vehicles | ialtinv : Alternative Investments | icnp : Consumer Goods | ifinal : Financial Services | ifood :
Food Products | i413 : Dairy Products | i4132 : Ice Cream/Frozen Desserts | i414 : Food
Preserving/Speciality Foods | i4141 : Frozen Food
ceffic : Corporate Restructuring | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | reqris : Suggested Reading
Investing/Securities | c11 : Plans/Strategy | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr :
Suggested Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140613ea6e0001n

Page220of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.