The wait is over! Apple fans around the world finally get the iPhone 6 - but for some it's too much to handle

SE
HD

BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Science
The wait is over! Apple fans around the world finally get the iPhone 6 - but for some it's too
much to handle
EMILY CRANE FOR DAILY MAIL AUSTRALIA and ELLIE ZOLFAGHARIFARD FOR MAILONLINE
2,199 words
22 September 2014
21:06
Mail Online
DAMONL
English
© 2014 Associated Newspapers. All rights reserved

* People have been camping outside Apple stores globally since the new iPhones were announced
last week

* Many were genuine fans who wanted to be first to own handsets, but others sold their place in the
queue

* Sam Sheikh, 27, from London was the first customer in the UK to get his new iPhone plus after
queuing for 3 days

* Californian Dave Rahimi and his girlfriend Jasmine Juan were first to get iPhones after collecting
them in Sydney

* First punter to buy the phone in Perth managed to drop it in excitement as he showed it off outside
the store

* Tokyo customers were offered coffee and high fives from Apple employees as they prepared to buy
the phones

* People fought in long queues and tempers flared among Apple fans as a result of queue jumping in
Sydney

* O2 Priority customers were given handsets on top of the O2 Arena followed by a performance from
Tinie Tempah

* In New York, queues for the Soho Apple Store stretched more than 2,100ft (0.4 miles) along Greene
Street

* While in London, people queued for 1,050ft (0.2 miles) from Covent Garden store to the Royal
Opera House

After days of sleeping rough outside flagship stores, eager Apple fans have finally got their hands on
the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus.

Demand is so high that people have been selling their place in queues for thousands, and Apple has
been limiting customers to two phones each.

In London, hundreds of people outside Covent Garden and Regent Street packed away their tents as
they jostled to get their hands on the new phones.

Scroll down for videos

Sam Sheikh, 27, based in east London said he’d been waiting there for more than three days to bag
his gold coloured iPhone 6 Plus, and was the first customer in the UK to get his phone.

Page87of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Standing at the front door of the shop he said: 'I’m very excited. I came last week and started queuing
with my friends.

'Last time this happened, unfortunately I couldn’t get the phone I wanted. So this time I decided I had
to get it...I didn’t want to lose out.'

Security staff kept people inside huge festival style barriers that stretched the entire length of Covent
Garden up to the Royal Opera House entrance - some 320 metres.

Mr Sheikh's friend Jameel Ahmed, 26, from Harrow, added that he’s excited to test out his new
phone’s features.

THE QUEUE OUTSIDE APPLE'S REGENT STORE

Gadget insurer Protect Your Bubble surveyed the queue outside Apple's Regent street in London,
which started to form on 8 September.

It found that 41 per cent of Apple fans were waiting in line for the iPhone 6 Plus, 30 per cent for the
iPhone 6, and 29 per cent were queuing for both handsets.

More than a quarter (26 per cent) of queuers said the larger screen on both phones - compared to the
screen size of the 4-inch iPhone 5S – was the feature they were most excited about, followed by the
new design (18 per cent) and the prospect of longer battery life (18 per cent) as promised by Apple.

The queue - which attracted almost 2,000 people – was dominated by men, with the ratio of men to
women at 8:2.

The average queuing time among the first 100 people was 13.5 hours.
'I’m very happy,' he said. 'The last time I queued for it in Regent Street I didn’t get the gold one.
'I was very sad. This time I’m getting the £699 64GB model. It’s the one I want and I’m looking forward
to testing it out.'

Specialist gadget insurer Protect Your Bubble surveyed the queue outside Apple's Regent street in
London, which started to form on 8 September - the day before Apple’s launch event in Cupertino.

It found that 41 per cent of Apple fans were waiting in line for the iPhone 6 Plus, 30 per cent for the
iPhone 6, and 29 per cent were queuing for both handsets.

More than a quarter (26 per cent) of queuers said the larger screen on both phones - compared to the
screen size of the 4-inch iPhone 5S – was the feature they were most excited about, followed by the
new design (18 per cent) and the prospect of longer battery life (18 per cent) as promised by Apple.

However more than a third (35 per cent) doubted the battery on the new iPhones would last noticeably
longer.  

An overwhelming 62 per cent said they would use Apple Pay when it arrives in the UK, although
almost a quarter of those surveyed (24 per cent) had never actually heard of the tech giant’s new
mobile payment system.

When asked about the Apple Watch, unveiled at the same event as the iPhones, 53 per cent said they
would not buy one when it goes on sale next year.

The queue - which had attracted almost 2,000 people by the time doors opened – was dominated by
men, with the ratio of men to women at 8:2.

The average queuing time among the first 100 people in line was 13.5 hours, although the queue
formed around 260 hours before doors opened.

More than half the queuers were students, the average age of queuers was 27.5 years, and people
had travelled as far as Moscow to be there.

A number of O2 Priority Customers were also given the chance to collect the new phones from on top
of the O2 Arena in London, where rapper Tinie Tempah performed an intimate gig.

Apple devotees were also gathering outside the Eldon Square store in Newcastle this morning, with
fans rushing through the doors to become the first owners.

Page88of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.William Underwood, 23, was first in the queue with his girlfriend Zoe Brass, 18. The architecture
graduate, from County Durham, is

completing a architecture internship while working as a retail assistant.

He said: 'We have been here since 8pm last night outside the Eldon Square entrance. We came
through for dinner and thought there is no point going home so we stayed overnight.

'We had brought some chairs with us just in case. There has been times when I have felt sleepy. I
think I have had about 45 minutes of sleep and I have work at 10am.'

Zoltan Wiettchen, 24, of Plaistow, east London, said he was first in the queue at the Regent's Street
store and had been reserving a spot for his girlfriend.

'My girlfriend is over there sleeping in the first tent in the queue,' he said. 'I set up camp on 8
September at night.

He said he had been disturbed by revellers over the weekend, adding: 'I've had drunk people kicking
the tent and pulling me out to take pictures while I sleep.

HOMELESS CHARITY AUCTIONS OFF PLACE IN THE QUEUE

Depaul UK, a national youth homelessness charity, is hoping to raise money by offering its place in
the queue to the highest bidder.

Volunteers from Depaul UK have been queuing at the Apple Store in Oxford Circus since Wednesday
for the new iPhone.
iPhone fans can search ‘Depaul spot 4 sale’ on eBay and bid for Depaul’s queue place, which will be
sold off to the highest bidder. All the money will go towards helping young people off the streets.

The first iPhone 6 in the world, however, was sold to an American man who travelled all the way to
Australia to retrieve it.

Cult of Mac reported that Dave Rahimi and his girlfriend Jasmine Juan decided to collect their iPhones
in Sydney, though the couple had reserved them back in California.

Mr Rahimi and Ms Juan edged out a separate line of customers by getting to the front of the store
pick-up line.
The first batch of new iPhones in the world went on sale in Australia, but one of the first punters to get
his hands on the phone managed to drop it as soon as he left the store.

Jack Cooksey was the first to buy the iPhone 6 at the Perth Apple store on Friday morning but as he
excitedly showed off his new purchase to a reporter outside, it spilled out and fell to the ground.

The crowd of people waiting in line groaned as he bent down to pick it up - crack free - and carefully
placed it back in the box.

Meanwhile, tempers flared among the mob of Apple fans queued outside the Chatswood store in
Sydney.

One angry fan yelled at police outside the store, complaining about queue jumpers before officers
moved him to the back of the line.

'It's unfair! I've been waiting here for whole night,' the man yelled. 

Apple had enforced a strict embargo that prevented retailers from displaying the new phones or boxes
bearing the product before 8am AEST.

The queue at Sydney's flagship Apple store stretched for several blocks throughout the city and was
nearly half a kilometre long well before the shop even opened.

'It's exciting, like a festival,' said one queuer, Jin Sik Kim, who had been there for about 22 hours.
Apple says it received four million pre-orders in the first day, up from the previous high of two million
for the iPhone 5 two years ago.

In Japan, the new iPhones are now being sold without a SIM lock for the first time, with huge numbers
of fans pushing through the doors of Tokyo's Apple stores.

Page89of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.And buyers from China, who have missed out of the latest iPhone launch, were among the first in line
to get their hands on the Apple gadgets.

People with prime spots outside these shops were also able to earn money for being so keen - with
one place in New York being sold for $2,500 (£1,500).

Mobile phone retailers across the country were trying to draw customers in with live music and free
coffee ahead of the release.

Telstra, Vodafone, Optus and Virgin Mobile allocated extra stock to their CBD stores. 

Those queueing at Telstra CBD stores in George Street, Sydney; Bourke Street, Melbourne; Queen
Street, Brisbane; and Rundle Mall, Adelaide were being promised prizes, coffee, a DJ and comfy
beanbags, the Sydney Morning Herald  reports.

Telstra even roped in Australia's Got Talent winners Justice Crew and the X Factor's Dami Im and Jai
Waetford to perform for waiting customers in Sydney, Melbourne and Sydney.

Vodafone was offering free coffee to customers and Virgin Mobile promised goodie bags.

Prices for the iPhone 6 start from $869, compared with $649 in the US. The iPhone 6 Plus will retail
from $999 in Australia and $749 abroad.
A handful of keen fans have been queuing outside the firm's Fifth Avenue store in New York since
September 1, when the phones were still a rumour.

'We wanted to beat the record, which had been 18 days,' Brian Ceballo, who arrived at Apple's NYC
flagship on Sunday to wait, told CNBC.

One couple - Moon Ray, 25 and Jason, 29, were among seven people in new York queuing up a
week ago.

They travelled over 1,000 miles (1,609km) from Jackson, Mississippi and arrived in New York on
September 1 to find that they were not first in the queue, because cousins and New Yorkers Joseph
Cruz and Brian Ceballo had beaten them to it.

The Mississippi couple paid $2,500 (£1,500) to swap places with the cousins.
Ahead of doors opening, one of the tents is being manned by Task Rabbit, an online company that
outsources household errands, after being paid by a client to queue up on their behalf.
Uma Subramanian of the firm, said: ‘We’re taking it in turns to man the tent for a client who requested
our services online. I cannot say how much he paid us or who he is, because that’s confidential, but
our workers charge between £10 and £20 an hour for whatever activity they have been paid to do.’

Apple unveiled its latest smartphone last week alongside its much hyped Apple Watch. The iPhone 6
has a 4.7-inch screen, curved edges and will be available in dark black and gold, while the iPhone 6
Plus has a 5.5-inch screen and 185 per cent more pixels than the 5S.

The iPhone 6 will start at $199 on a two-year contract for 16GB, $299 for 64GB and $399 for 128GB,
while the iPhone 6 Plus starts at $299 for 16GB, $399 for 64GB and $499 for 128GB.

The iPhone 6 is 6.9mm and the iPhone 6 Plus is 7.1mm thick, compared to 7.6mm on the 5S. Both
devices have Retina HD displays.

Both handsets feature the new Apple A8 64-bit chip, an 8MP camera and iOS 8 software, among a
host of other features.

applc : Apple Inc.
ismart : Smart Phones | iretail : Retail | i3302 : Computers/Consumer Electronics | i3441 :
Telecommunications Equipment | i34411 : Mobile Communications Equipment | i3454 : Electronic
Consumer Goods | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | icellph : Cellular/Mobile Phones | ielec : Consumer
Electronics | ihandaps : Handheld Electronic Devices | itech : Technology
gsci : Sciences/Technologies | gcat : Political/General News
uk : United Kingdom | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr :
Australia | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | nswals : New South Wales | weurz :
Western Europe

CO
IN

NS
RE

Page90of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB
AN

Associated Newspapers
Document DAMONL0020140918ea9j009yf

Page91of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.