Roy Hill on track to start up

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Roy Hill on track to start up

Sarah-Jane Tasker
320 words
20 June 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
22
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

RESOURCES: While volatility in the iron ore price continues to spook investors, Gina Rinehart’s
$10 billionRoy Hill project has chalked up another milestone, advancing past the 40 per cent
completion stage.
The company also revealed yesterday that it had satisfied all of the lenders’ requirements for its
$US7.2bn ($7.6bn) loan facility and made its first drawdown. The debt package, which was finalised
in Singapore in March, included five export credit agencies and a consortium of 19 commercial
banks.

The conditions on the loan included certain achievements being made in the construction progress
and funding management controls.

Barry Fitzgerald, chief executive of Roy Hill Holdings, said accessing the first funds from the loan
represented an independent health check of the construction progress.
“I am advised this is the largest ever project financing for the development of a land-based mining
project worldwide, and is testament to the project and the steadfast support and commitment from
our quality shareholders,” he said.
Mrs Rinehart’s company, Hancock Prospecting, owns 70 per cent of the project but she brought in
three equity partners with varied interests to support its development: Japan’s Marubeni (15 per
cent), South Korea’s Posco (12.5 per cent) and China Steel Corp (2.5 per cent).

The project, which sits 270km south of Port Hedland and 110km north of Newman in Western
Australia’s rich iron ore province, aims to produce 55 million tonnes of ore a year. Roy Hill will
include the construction of a 344km heavy-haul railway to Port Hedland, where ore handling and
berth facilities are being developed.

Roy Hill employs about 3500 employees and significant work is under way on the mine, rail and port
infrastructure.“Roy Hill has already shown it will create new jobs and benefit the greater mining and
construction-related industries,” Mrs Rinehart said.

IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140619ea6k00042

Page240of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.