Rio and Vale step up fight for Guinean trove; MINING

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY

LP

TD

COMPANIES
Rio and Vale step up fight for Guinean trove; MINING

By Tom Burgis
775 words
2 May 2014
Financial Times
FTFT
USA Ed1
14
English
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and
redistribute by email or post to the web.

News analysis
Lawsuit puts focus on miners' struggle in the global iron ore market, writes Tom Burgis

Rio Tinto's lawsuit claiming Vale cheated it out of billions of dollars adds to the conflicting accounts of
the battle over a trove of minerals in a remote corner of Africa - and shines a light on a struggle between
the two biggest companies in the global iron ore market.

Rio's claim , which the Anglo-Australian group filed in New York on Wednesday, alleges that Vale of
Brazil conspired with Beny Steinmetz and the mining arm of the Israeli tycoon's family conglomerate,
BSG Resources, to "steal" part of its rights to the Simandou iron-ore deposit in Guinea.

Rio was granted rights to prospect Simandou in 1997 and over the next 11 years spent what it says was
hundreds of millions of dollars on exploration. In August 2008, according to the lawsuit, Rio entered
talks with Vale about selling an interest in Simandou. Rio says it allowed Vale access to "highly
confidential and proprietary information" regarding the project - information which, Rio claims, Vale
"improperly divulged" to BSGR as part of a joint effort to snatch a piece of Simandou illicitly.

Rio says it told Vale that BSGR was trying to "misappropriate" Simandou. In December 2008, rights to
the northern half of the deposit were granted to BSGR, after what an inquiry by the current Guinean
government concluded last month was a bribery scheme involving the wife of the veteran dictator ,
Lansana Conté. Less than 18 months later, Vale announced a deal to buy a 51 per cent stake in BSGR's
Guinean assets for $2.5bn.

A representative for BSGR and Mr Steinmetz, who deny the corruption allegations, on Wednesday called
the lawsuit "baseless and bizarre" and maintained that Rio lost its rights as it failed to bring Simandou
into production.

BSGR offers a different version of events in a statement published last year. After the
Guernsey-registered group acquired rights to the northern half of Simandou, it says it held talks with
three potential investors - the Libyan Investment Authority and two Chinese groups, Chinalco and
Baosteel - before striking its deal with Vale.

BSGR says it was approached by Vale in 2010 and that "intense" talks followed. It says Roger Agnelli,
Vale's chief executive at the time, "admitted to BSGR that his group . . . was very familiar with the
Simandou asset since it had made an offer to Rio Tinto several years earlier to purchase the Simandou
project from them for $4bn". BSGR adds Mr Ag-nelli made this disclosure only after it signed its deal with
Vale and that, until then, it had been "surprised by the detailed knowledge of the Vale due diligence team
regarding the asset's geology and data".

Vale yesterday declined to comment on BSGR's account and says it is studying Rio's filing. It has said it
conducted "extensive" due diligence before its deal with BSGR and received "representations that BSGR

Page118of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.had obtained its mining rights lawfully and without any corrupt or improper promises or payments". Vale
paid $500m of the $2.5bn fee to BSGR upfront but has not paid the balance. Guinea cancelled the
Vale-BSGR joint venture's rights last month, in the wake of the corruption inquiry, and plans to put them
out to tender.

Vale and BSGR have said they are weighing legal action in response to the cancellation of their rights.
Rio, which retains the southern half of Simandou, signalled last year that it might be interested in seeking
to reclaim its lost rights if they became available. But Vale is not out of the hunt: the Guinean inquiry
recommended that only BSGR be barred from bidding, after concluding that it was "likely" that Vale had
not taken part in corruption.
Rio claims the alleged conspiracy to capture the northern half of Simandou cost it billions of dollars and
is seeking damages. But the ultimate prize is larger still.
"This is a battle to the death for control of Simandou, with the clear understanding that the firm that
controls it also has a dominant position in the iron industry for a generation to come," says a person
close to the Guinean government.
Rio and Vale hold the two most important deposits of iron ore, in Australia and Brazil respectively.
A rush of production from Guinea could depress ore prices, adding to the strategic importance of
controlling Simandou for the rivals. Des Kilalea, mining analyst at RBC Capital Markets, says: "They
want to have their flags in it."

See Lex

brgol : FYI Resources Ltd | rtz : Rio Tinto PLC | rtzcra : Rio Tinto Group | craaus : Rio Tinto Ltd | cvrd :
Vale S.A.
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | imet : Mining/Quarrying |
ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | i951 : Health Care/Life Sciences
c12 : Corporate Crime/Legal Action | reqrmm : Suggested Reading Metals/Mining | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News
Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr :
Suggested Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | braz : Brazil | israel : Israel | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | lamz : Latin America | meastz : Middle East | medz : Mediterranean | samz : South America
| wasiaz : Western Asia
Company News
CN

CO

IN

NS

RE

IPD
IPC
PUB The Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)
AN

Document FTFT000020140502ea5200030

Page119of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.