eSSENTIALS

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Features
eSSENTIALS

PHILIP KING, SEAN PARNELL, CHRIS GRIFFITH, SUSAN KUROSAWA, JOHN LETHLEAN
604 words
29 January 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
1 - All-round Country
16
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

CARS
CUMULATIVE sales of Toyota hybrids topped six million by the end of last year and the pace of sales is
increasing, the company says, with the five million mark passed just nine months ago. The Prius, now
in its third generation, accounts for more than half the total, although Toyota is rapidly expanding the
range, with 15 hybrids to be added over the next two years. They will join the 25 models already on sale
in 80 countries. Toyota's first hybrids date from 1997 and it took a decade to notch up one million. In
Australia, Toyota has been building the hybrid Camry since 2009, although petrol-electric sales went
backwards last year, with 11,949 buyers against 13,925 in 2012.

PHILIP KING

TEENS

YOUR teenager may have trouble sleeping because they are using the internet, video games and
mobile phones too much. University of Adelaide researchers surveyed the electronic media and sleep
habits of more than 1200 students aged 12 to 18 and discovered many weren't getting adequate
shut-eye, especially the one in 10 teens found to be addicted to electronic media. ``Although there are
many known benefits of electronic media for young people . . . previous studies have suggested that
excessive electronic media use could impact negatively on sleeping patterns and the quality of sleep,''
says lead researcher Daniel King. ``Our study found that more than 70 per cent of adolescents are not
receiving optimal sleep during weekdays, with use of electronic media delaying the time they go to bed,
interrupting them during the night, and leading to longer times to achieve a deep sleep. Lack of sleep
can have significant health and mental health effects on young people.''

SEAN PARNELL

GADGETS

PHABLET computers are somewhere between a smartphone and tablet in size, with screens of about
six inches diagonally. To many, they sit in no-man's land: they're too large to put to your ear to make
calls, and too small for tablet-style browsing. But they are set to sell like, dare we say, hot phablets.
British firm Juniper Research predicts more than 120 million phablets will ship annually by 2018,
compared with just 20 million last year. South Korea and China seem the big markets for phablet
growth. They offer gamers decent screen size while on the go. Juniper seems on the money, with
several more manufacturers about to get into the phablet business.

CHRIS GRIFFITH

TRAVEL

``THE tourism sector . . . has been among the few sectors generating positive news for many
economies,'' says UN World Tourism Organisation secretary-general Taleb Rifai.

Page102of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.52m Number of international tourists last year above

2012 predictions

+10% Southeast Asia

+7% Central and Eastern Europe

+6% Southern and Mediterranean Europe

+6% North Africa

563m Visitors to Europe

248m Visitors to Asia-Pacifi c

SUSAN KUROSAWA

SOURCE: UN WORLD TOURISM ORGANISATION

RESTAURANTS

WHAT a year to launch Viva Brazil, and even if the nation itself is having trouble finishing stadiums for
the World Cup, the new Techne-designed Prahran (Melbourne) restaurant has been completed on time
and is looking flash. Boasting 17 different cuts of meat, the churrascaria may well be the launch-pad for
a chain under the same name from a few expat British operators in Melbourne. Along with the notable
designers, and a wine list by Chris Crawford, exec chef Johnny Florencio is a bona fide Brazilian and an
alumnus of Yotam Ottolenghi's mini-empire in London. And aren't we all fans of Mr Ottolenghi?
vivabrazil.com.au

JOHN LETHLEAN

CO
IN
NS
RE
PUB
AN

toyta : Toyota Motor Corp.
i351 : Motor Vehicles | i35101 : Passenger Cars | iaut : Automotive
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140128ea1t00028

Page103of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.