Retirees buoy cruise group

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Enterprise
Retirees buoy cruise group

Simon Evans
527 words
27 May 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
14
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

South Australia's largest privately owned travel agency group, Phil Hoffmann Travel, has turned down
buyout offers and is eyeing acquisitions, as annual revenue approaches $127 million, fuelled by an
army of affluent self-funded retirees who relish the availability of Wi-Fi on river cruising vessels going
up the River Danube in Europe.

Owner Phil Hoffmann, who started the business in 1990 and now employs 180 staff in eight retail
outlets in suburban Adelaide, estimates that between 40 per cent and 50 per cent of the firm's leisure
travel customers are self-funded retirees. They are tech-savvy and closely monitor share prices and
the unit prices of managed funds while river cruising, which continues to accelerate in popularity, with
bookings growing at 30 per cent annually.

Phil Hoffmann Travel chief executive Peter Williams says river cruising on luxury vessels is in hot
demand among the group's 20,000 customers because of the smaller size of the vessel with an
average 135 to 160 people on board, and the ability to float up to smaller docks for access to
ancient landmarks that can be inaccessible by road.

"It's a luxury floating hotel with very good flexibility," he said.
Mr Williams will increase his stake in Phil Hoffmann Travel from 47.5 per cent to 50 per cent in June,
under a succession plan which leaves the Hoffmann family with the other 50 per cent of the
business.Acquisitions on the horizon
Mr Williams won't divulge specific details about profit growth at the business, but said the firm is on
target to generate an increase in revenue of 11 per cent in 2013-14 to $127 million.

It is also eyeing acquisitions and expects to complete due diligence soon on three or four local travel
agencies which may lead to acquisitions worth a combined $10 million over the next six months.

It is a deliberate attempt to build more scale, as operators with just one outlet who may be
approaching their retirement look to exit the travel industry.

"Scale is very important. It's about building more critical mass and being able to have the very best
product offerings," Mr Williams said.

The business was last year named Australia's best retail travel agency for multiple locations at the
AFTA National Travel Industry Awards, a gong it has won on 10 occasions over the past 22 years.

Mr Hoffmann says strong customer service has been a hallmark of the business, with wealthy
self-funded retirees wanting personal service they can't get from more commoditised online
businesses.

Those sophisticated customers often tried online sites but would inevitably return because the overall
experience was better and led to repeat business over generations. He also said one of the increasing

Page227of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.trends was in bookings of three generations of families, as grandparents, parents and grandchildren
all went to a particular destination to catch up in a "time-poor" society.

Mr Hoffmann said he had received "three or four" buyout offers in the past decade, including one in
2005 from a potential Chinese buyer, but had preferred to keep control.

RE
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140526ea5r0001n

Page228of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.