Heads and harbour views

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

APlus
Heads and harbour views

Emily Pettafor
853 words
5 April 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
APlus
8
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

NSW: SYDNEY NORTH SHORE. 15 KIRKOSWALD AVENUE, MOSMAN. $12m-$14M. STEPHEN
Fitzgerald, member of the board of guardians of Australia's Future Fund and former chairman of
Goldman Sachs Australia, and his wife, Julie, are downsizing from Mosman on Sydney's north shore to
Paddington in the city’s east. Yullamurra, the property they have called home since 2007, was built in
the 1930s in the P&O style of architecture.
Overlooking Middle Harbour and the Heads, it has pathway access to Balmoral and Chinamans
beaches. There are large entertaining decks, surrounded by trees, which capitalise on the views.

The house spans three levels, with a formal dining room, lounge and library opening out into more
casual living and dining areas featuring expansive water views.

Upstairs, there are five bedrooms with the ensuite to the master boasting a freestanding bath framed
by a wall of glass. The lower level has a guest retreat, games room, gym and cellar as well as a
triple-car garage.

Outside there is a gas and solar-heated pool complete with cabana. The Fitzgeralds commissioned the
Quinlan Group to oversee a custom renovation in 2009.

If the panoramic views aren’t enough to capture your attention, the interiors have been lovingly crafted.

There is a subtle Asian flavour, reflecting time the Fitzgeralds have spent in the region, with rich
timbers offset by natural stone.
Agents: Tim Foote and Adrian Bridges, Belle Property, Mosman. Private auction April 15.

MOSMAN is a suburb on Sydney's north shore. It is surrounded on three sides by the waters of
Sydney Harbour and has some of the harbour's most beautiful beaches.

Federation-era houses predominate in Mosman, but there are other styles ranging from Californian
bungalows to modern townhouse and apartment buildings.
According to Australian Property Monitors, the median house price in Mosman in January this year
was $2.28 million. This showed growth of 16 per cent on a year earlier. The median achieved in the
wider north shore area in January was $1.5m.
For all Prestige Property listings, contact Emily Pettafor, emilymay.prestige@gmail.com

VICTORIA: INNER MELBOURNE. 26 YARRAVALE ROAD, KEW. $2M +

THIS split-level 1960s residence was designed by Melbourne architects Chancellor and Patrick. It is
set in the first entirely native garden planted by landscape designer Edna Walling. The house has
vaulted ceilings, full-height windows and has been featured in architecture and gardening magazines

Page292of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.over its history. There are four bedrooms plus an upper-level retreat and three bathrooms. It is being
sold by Lily Tell, daughter of the original owners.

AGENTS: Hamish Tostevin and James Tostevin, Marshall White, Hawthorn. Auction April 12

VICTORIA: INNER MELBOURNE. 69 ELIZABETH STREET, MALVERN. $3.25m+

ADVERTISING executive Bob Talbot and wife Sharyn are selling their home of 25 years in Malvern.
Bought in the sell-off of the old Malvern Brickworks site, the house was originally single-storey.
Architect Allan Powell helped the Talbots add a second storey and renovate the lower level about five
years ago. The renovation was designed to capture light. The house now has five bedrooms, four
bathrooms and a pool. It overlooks the green space of Sir Robert Menzies Reserve.

AGENTS: Darren Lewenberg and Nathan Verwoert, Kay & Burton, South Yarra. Auction today .

QUEENSLAND: 155 SHOREHAVEN DRIVE, NOOSA WATERS. $2M +
JEFF Pearce, a former human resources executive with Colonial Group and Mayne Group, and his
wife Jean have lived in this waterfront property for 10 years. With its own boat jetty and a central
courtyard with pool and spa, the house is built for enjoying Noosa's blue skies. It has three bedrooms,
three bathrooms and large windows to let the light in. Now retired, the Pearces have bought another
home nearby.
AGENT: Nic Hunter, Tom Offermann Real Estate, Noosa Heads. Auction April 11.

ADELAIDE:

78A SEAVIEW ROAD, WEST BEACH. $1.5M +.

Architect and academic Steffen Lehmann and his wife, graphic designer Cida, have loved living in their
beachfront property at Adelaide's West Beach, but a promotion is taking them to Perth. They bought
the four-bedroom house in 2011 and Cida says she will miss watching the sun set over the ocean. The
kitchen, with a 4m island bench, is sure to tempt any home entertainer. A balcony offers views across
a park to the dunes of the beach and beyond to Gulf St Vincent.
AGENTS: Peter McMillan and Eloise McMillan, Toop & TOop, Hyde Park. Auction April 13.

NSW: SOUTHERN HIGHLANDS. 618 ARGYLE STREET, MOSS VALE. $1M+

HAIRDRESSER Glenn O’Reilly and his wife Karen bought this historic country home, Lynton, built
about 1860, about five years ago in what Glenn describes as “a very run-down state”. They have
lavished “a lot of love, sweat and tears” on turning it into a beautiful family home set in landscaped
gardens spanning 9788sq m. The house has 5m high ceilings, original fireplaces, six bedrooms and
three bathrooms. It has dual access and scope for future subdivision.AGENT: Eloise Haydon, McGrath
Estate Agents, Bowral. Auction April 12.

CO
IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gldmns : The Goldman Sachs Group Incorporated
i814 : Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | i83101 : Investment Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit |
ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
garchi : Architecture | gart : Art | gcat : Political/General News | gent : Arts/Entertainment
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | nswals : New South Wales | queensl : Queensland | sydney :
Sydney | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140404ea450002v

Search Summary

Text

((chin* or hong kong)) and (
( (residential or site or commercial) and (casino resort or island or hotel or apartment
or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company or board or entitys) and
(transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) )
or
( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron or lead
or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or stake or
equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or firm or

Page293of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.company))
or
( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or equity
or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group or firm or
board) and (million* or billion* or B or M))
)
not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall Street
or Forex or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex)
and re=austr
01/01/2014 to 30/04/2014
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
2,564
29 August 2018 1:13

Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found
Timestamp

Page294of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.