Karoon's Brazilian oil excitement

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Karoon's Brazilian oil excitement

Matthew Stevens
1,337 words
3 June 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
34
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Matthew Stevens

Karoon Gas is one of those delicious Australian success stories that is made all the more delightful by
its improbability.

Having made a wealthy fist of a life in scrap metal, a bloke called Bob Hosking latched on to BHP's
expansion from steel to petroleum as a theme for his investment future.
Then, after making not quite a false start with Nexus Energy at the turn of the century, Hosking
collected wit and wisdom enough for a second crack at gas through Karoon, which he took to the
market in 2003.

Introduced to the Browse Basin as an opportunity by a former BHP Petroleum executive named Mike
Smith, Karoon arrived at one of the future well-springs of Australian export wealth just ahead of the
increasingly international pack now crowding into the space.
Smith's hunch proved spot on and the net result is the sale of Karoon's 40 per cent stake in the
Poseidon gas discovery to Origin Energy for $600 million up-front and a further $200 million in
future-dated milestone payments.

But, as it was with Nexus, so the end of one Hosking dream only fuels another. By monetising
Karoon's Browse gas position, the company makes far more affordable the development of its
impressive little fleet of offshore oil discoveries in Brazil and its aspiration to repeat that success in
Peru.

As it was in the Browse, so Karoon's success in Brazil gets down to the ability of Hosking and his
intimate management team to back the right hunches by the right people.

This time the blokes were current chief operating officer Ed Munks and a septuagenarian Argentinian
geologist Carlos Urien.
Hosking decided to drive Karoon into international waters when the company was thoroughly outbid
by Hess Corporation in a tender for WA offshore tenements.

After a lot of careful plotting, Hosking's sights settled on Argentina. One of the first conversations
about its potential was with Spain's oil international Repsol. So Munck was told to find new South
American horizons. And his first point of call was Urien and then a bunch of ex-ConocoPhillips guys.
Their advice was to look offshore Peru and Brazil.

Which explains why Karoon of Mount Martha in Victoria now owns 65 per cent of five blocks in the
Santos Basin and why Brazil's oil basin of legend is host to highly prospective oil finds called
Kangaroo and Bilby.

Page45of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The effect of the Origin deal then, is that Karoon has replaced its Western Australian gas dreaming
with some shorter term Brazilian oil excitement.

There was some surprise at the fact that Karoon was prepared to sell all of its position in the Greater
Poseidon. But the logic is unavoidable, it seems to me.

Gas in the sort of licks that discovery holds is a very rich, long-term game.

Translating that gas into real production and cash flow was going to take five and more years. And
that is time that Karoon does not have, given the drilling programs required to sustain its South
American ambitions. By its nature, oil is a far less complicated and costly development option for the
likes of Karoon.
So, having hoovered up $600 million with upside yet, Karoon has the financial resources now to
complete an appraisal of its Brazilian finds with an initial focus on the Kangaroo find.

As with all things Hosking related, the investment thesis is admirably uncomplicated. Karoon wants to
become a producer as rapidly as possible and then aim cash flow at growth and shareholders.

Meanwhile, Grant King's plunge on a still expanding bank of Western Australia's deep water gas
comes as a bigger surprise than it should.
Well before he committed Origin Energy to its $20 billion liquid natural gas project at Gladstone, King
had made it clear he was attracted by the idea of going very, very long gas, whenever and wherever
there might be the infrastructure needed to export the stuff. And Grant is a guy well worth listening too.
He neither minces nor wastes words.

So it is that, barring last minute intervention by either ConocoPhillips or PetroChina, Origin is to
acquire the 40 per cent share of the Poseidon gas discovery from its original finder, the remarkable
little success story that is Karoon Gas.
The complication there is that Karoon US and Chinese partners in Poseidon have pre-emptive rights
over the Australian junior's position. And while it does seem unlikely that ConocoPhillips might want to
rain on King's parade, it was interesting to hear King on Monday morning suggest that PetroChina has
a long-standing interest in becoming an operator of international assets.

To that end, it rather looks like the Origin deal has been done at a small but perhaps meaningful
discount to the price paid by PetroChina to get its 20 per cent share of the Poseidon action. The price
Origin has paid works out at about $3.17 a share for Karoon shareholders. But the metrics of the
PetroChina buy-in imputed a value of about $3.30 a share for the 40 per cent Karoon has agreed to
deliver to Origin.

So the issue of pre-emptives might be more live than usual in deals of this strategic substance.

But given this works out as King plans – and things usually do – then the Poseidon investment
becomes Origin's first major play in the big gas winds that sit on the north-west coast. And, typically, it
is a play loaded with options.

Karoon's pitch over recent times is that the gas could be developed as back-fill for ConocoPhillips's
Darwin LNG project, and with further appraisal success it could play host to the US company's first
floating LNG facility.

Currently, the Darin project is supplied by the Bayu Undan gas field, but production is expected to
peak and decline over the next few years. King made a good deal of the simple, profit-enhancing
efficiency of connecting Poseidon to the existing infrastructure and feeding Darwin LNG's extended
functional life.

Poseidon is currently reckoned to contain upwards of 2.5 trillion cubic feet of gas with appraisal upside
rated at maybe 5TCF. At that level the field might justify the deployment of the floating LNG
processing technology that ConocoPhillips has been working on for the past few years and more.

Exploration of the Poseidon tenement, which hosts at least five other plays of quality, according
to Karoon, might further drive that option.

But, however the gas is developed, the Poseidon play illustrates plainly the King strategy.
He is committed to deploying the $1 billion a year in free cash flow that will be generated by Origin's
Gladstone plant from maybe 2018 at growth. And the most assured way to do that, he reckons, is to

Page46of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.acquire discovered and appraised gas assets that are supported by the quality of export infrastructure
that Conoco commands in Darwin.

One very ugly crisis over, two more ugly ones to deal with. That is where Metgasco chairman Len Gill
finds himself after the NSW Independent Commission Against Corruption said it had no reason to
pursue a referral by the NSW resources and energy minister Anthony Roberts.
Having cost Metgasco $3 million by abruptly cancelling approval for a protester-bound gas
exploration at Bentley in the state's distant north, Roberts told the world he had referred the company
to ICAC because of claimed links to Eddie Obeid.

Metgasco's biggest shareholder is ERM Power. Its chairman is Tony Bellas. He was once a director of
Australian Water Queensland. It is a subsidiary of Australian Water Holdings. And, for his sins, Bellas
is a shareholder of Gasfields Waste Water and Services. Dennis Jabour is also a shareholder. He is
Eddie Obeid's nephew. But none of that is "indicative of corrupt conduct", as ICAC made clear in its
letter to Metgasco's lawyers, Gilbert & Tobin.

bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | boral : Origin Energy Ltd | entity : Nexus Energy Ltd | karoon : Karoon Gas
Australia Ltd | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i162 : Gas Utilities | i211 :
Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | iutil : Utilities
cnatrd : Natural Reserves/Resources Discovery | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c24 :
Capacity/Facilities
braz : Brazil | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries
| devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | lamz : Latin America |
samz : South America
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140602ea630002n

CO

IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page47of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.