PNG tries to ease miners' fears

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
PNG tries to ease miners' fears

Greg Earl Asia Pacific editor
596 words
2 December 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
8
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Papua New Guinea Prime Minister Peter O'Neill has reassured foreign investors he is not trying to
assert control over resources development, despite taking stakes in two major resources companies
in the past year.

He conceded there were perceptions in the business community he wanted to take a more economic
nationalist approach to development but said this was wrong.

"It was not my intention to take control of the resource development projects in the country but to be a
partner and a very reliable partner," he told The Australian Financial Review in an interview on
Monday.

"In terms of the ownership of many of the projects in the country, there has been mixed feelings
about the government taking over the Ok Tedi Mine.

"I understand that has given a wrong perception that the government was entering the market and
trying to take some level of control over resources development in the country. That is certainly not
our intention."

He said he was committed to maintaining political stability and business confidence in his country
after a year of political turbulence and uncertainty about mining development policy.

He added his government was very focused on trying to encourage "our partners" to come into the
country and he was conscious government officials had to provide more consistent decision making.

"Many industry leaders have a good feeling about working with our government and they know they
have a good listener in us."
Mr O'Neill said the decision to nationalise the Ok Tedi gold and copper mine was consistent with a
long-standing agreement that when the mine reached closure it would go back to the people.

He said he regarded the move as a legal transaction but acknowledged it "has given the perception
the government was on path of taking over interests in the country".
On the move to take a 11 per cent staked in Oil Search, Mr O'Neill said this was a purely commercial
transaction that restored the nation to an equity stake it had never intended to lose.

While Mr O'Neill used much less strident nationalist language in the interview and a separate speech
to the Congress, he reiterated companies had to a bide by their development commitments and the
government still saw value in holding equity stakes. "Government will exercise it full rights under the
legislation with certain percentages of share holdings which we can hold.

Page99of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."People need to understand that, like anywhere else, we have got 7 million shareholders [citizens] in
PNG I need to protect. I have to secure their interest in some of these resource developments as I
am expected to do."

On other issues, Mr O'Neill strongly applauded the quality of the country's judicial system after a
series of controversies involving him and agencies including the police, ombudsman and courts.

He said: "There a certain sections of these institutions where personalities are involved and they are
compromised to a certain degree. But overall government constitutional offices are fairly well
protected by law. You can rest assured the judiciary is very fair, and transparent and independent."

Mr O'Neill said he was watching closely the evolution of trade agreements around the region to make
sure PNG did not get excluded.

In an indication of how he wants to take a greater leadership role in the Pacific – perhaps in
competition with Fiji – he said he would be trying to ensure smaller Pacific countries were included in
any trade agreements he reached with larger countries such as China.

RE
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141201eac200020

Page100of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.