Treasury Wine Estates accused of manipulating grape market

Treasury Wine Estates accused of manipulating grape market

31 January 2014
Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC) News
ABCNEW
English
(c) 2014 Australian Broadcasting Corporation

Sarina Locke

HD
BY
WC 637 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

Inland grape growers have met in Griffith to discuss the 'crisis' in wine grape prices, saying they're
devastated and shell-shocked over the prices.

They are writing a submission for the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission which has
agreed to investigate allegations of price gouging by the big wine companies.

TD

They have also taken the issue to the Victorian Small Business Commissioner and will meet the Federal
Government next week to demand changes to the Wine Industry Code of Conduct.

Mark McKenzie, chief executive of Murray Valley Winegrape Growers, says the price for moscato has
been savagely slashed, and he says the winegrapes are not in oversupply.

"$185 /tonne indicative price from Pernod Ricard, through to $302 /tonne from Accolade Wines, we
believe that's a better indication of where the price should be."
He says Treasury Wine Estate set Chardonnay prices $240/tonne in December, but has since started
buying out of contract grapes at $150/tonne, which is half the average Murray Valley price for last year,
and $100/tonne below the cost of production.
Mr McKenzie says it's market failure, and the Wine Industry Code of Conduct should be mandatory and
changed to reduce the power of big wineries to set the price artificially low.
He says TWE has sent them letters saying the company would pay market price, but has otherwise
refused to meet grape growers.

TWE is refusing to comment, but has issued a statement today saying;
"TWE complies with the Australian Wine Industry Code of Conduct and one element of that code is that
we'll provide our contracted growers in irrigated regions, with grape prices by 15 December each year.
"In determining these prices we take into account a range of factors including bulk-market wine prices,
the $A exchange rate, the expected outlook for the new vintage and our own brand demand
requirements. All of these factors vary from year to year therefore like all commodities, pricing for grapes
fluctuates.
"We're confident that we've been open and transparent in all our transactions and discussions with
growers throughout the year and that our pricing is in line with the current market."

Analysts forecast further profit downgrades
Investment analyst Citigroup says Treasury Wine Estate's profit downgrade could be even greater than
20 per cent.
Gino Rossi, of Citigroup, expects earnings for the big wine company in 2014 to be "down 25 per cent and
now forecast EBITS of $187 million".
TWE's own forecast is for a $190-$210 million earnings this financial year, down from previous forecast
earnings of up to $210 million.

Page246of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The Company blames a decision not to heavily discount its brands before Christmas, like Lindemans,
Penfolds and Rosemount Estate, which meant major Australian retailers sold more of the competition.
Mr Rossi writes that decision cost TWE a 16 per cent slump in wine sales.
"The decision to pull back on promotions and raise pricing on commercial wines didn’t work, highlighting
the challenge for wine manufacturers.
"We think the strategy is commendable, but we doubt the company can maintain this price discipline for
much longer, and forecast a recovery in 2015."
He says because of China's austerity push, "luxury wines may suffer in other key markets such as
Australia and the UK".
Mr Rossi says the long term outlook for buying shares in Treasury Wine Estate is good, even though the
share price fell 20 per cent in a day this week.
"Treasury provides investors an opportunity to buy the Australian wine industry at the bottom of the cycle,
and we think the outlook for the US market is favourable.

"We expect Asia to recover and it remains a large opportunity for Treasury. However, we retain our
neutral rating on Treasury."

CO
IN

NS

trzwn : Treasury Wine Estates Ltd | auccc : Australian Competition and Consumer Commission
i426 : Wine | i01001 : Farming | i0 : Agriculture | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | ialco : Alcoholic
Beverages/Drinks | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods
c314 : Pricing | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
IPD treasury
PUB Australian Broadcasting Corporation
AN

Document ABCNEW0020140130ea1v000pd

Page247of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.