Star shines for Southport

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Star shines for Southport

EXCLUSIVE JENNY ROGERS AND MARTIN RASINI EXCLUSIVE
395 words
16 May 2014
Gold Coast Bulletin
GCBULL
GoldCoast
3
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

HE spent months searching Australia for the perfect site to create a multimillion-dollar lifestyle
development.
In the end, Chinese developer, Mr Cao, chose Southport as the place to create a landmark project
which will see the suburb’s renaissance scale new heights.

The property developer is believed to be paying upwards of $25 million for the former Southport home
of the Star of the Sea convent which was placed on the market by the Catholic religious order.
His company, Xi’an WenHua Industrial Co, based in Xi’an, the capital of Shaanxi province, acquired
the landholding, apparently through Australian arm, Garuda GC Corporation.
Mr Cao now plans to transform the 1.5ha site into a resort and lifestyle precinct that will feature
highrise towers with shopping and dining precincts, office space and education facilities alongside
resort accommodation and permanent-living apartments.
A property industry source said the project would “outshine all other developments in the Southport
CBD.” “It will be one of the largest employment generators the city has seen and will revitalise the
suburb,” the source said.

Southport councillor Dawn Crichlow said the development would breathe new life into the heart of the
suburb.
“I think this is the most iconic site on the Gold Coast and it is going to be an absolutely fantastic
development,” Cr Crichlow said.

“It is opposite the Aquatic Centre which will host Commonwealth Games swimming events, will have
direct access to the Nerang Mall and I would love to see it eventually connected to the Broadwater
Parklands by a bridge.

“This is exactly what we are looking for as part of the Priority Development Area designation for
Southport.” Cr Crichlow said the developer had settled on Southport for his first Australian foray
because of its proximity to exclusive education facilities St Hilda’s and The Southport School, the
Chinatown precinct and light-rail project.
She said the developer was so impressed with the Chinatown project he had decided to donate a
paifang, or gateway, that will be erected at the entrance to the precinct.
Mr Cao’s daughter also has purchased a home in Southport’s prominent TSS precinct.

“He was attracted to the area as a great base for his daughter and grandchildren,” Cr Crichlow
said.Developer’s amazing Chinese projects. Business, Page 36

Page12of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS
RE
PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document GCBULL0020140515ea5g00035

Page13of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.