Negative gearing impact on prices

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Domain
Negative gearing impact on prices

By Gareth Hutchens
559 words
7 October 2014
St George Leader
FSGEOR
First
4
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

EXPERTS say negative gearing is having a greater impact on Australia's rapidly rising house prices
than Chinese investment.
But that statement comes with a qualification - it is difficult to know what the level of Chinese
investment in Australia's residential real estate is because authorities do not have data that breaks
things down that much.

One of Australia's most respected economists last Tuesday called for the Abbott government to rein in
surging house prices in Australia's capital cities by putting an end to negative gearing for new
investors.

Saul Eslake, chief economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, says negative gearing is contributing
to the inflation of property prices to the point where Australians could find themselves in a "bubble
situation".

He says the Abbott government ought to consider ending negative gearing for new investors to help
reduce the amounts that are being borrowed.
If that happened, new investors would either start to pay less for properties or not buy as many
because the tax incentives would not be there, and that would help to reduce property prices.

Negative gearing allows investors to deduct losses made on rental properties from their other income,
thereby reducing their overall annual tax liability.

Mr Eslake's call comes after the Reserve Bank warned last month that macro-prudential policies may
be needed to keep a lid on the country's soaring house prices.

The RBA says house price growth is being driven by investors, many of whom were buying existing
dwellings, rather than new dwellings, using negative gearing.

In its recent financial stability review, the Reserve Bank said strong demand by investors meant
investor housing loans now accounted for about 40 per cent of all home loans.
It said it had become so concerned about Australia's overheating property markets that it was openly
questioning whether bank lending practices were "conservative enough".

But the RBA's warning, and Mr Eslake's criticism of negative gearing, comes after repeated warnings
from real estate agents about the level of Chinese investment in local real estate markets.
Real estate agents have been warning that foreigners have been circumventing Australian laws,
pushing prices up and forcing locals out of the market in the process.

Page48of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.That is despite Foreign Investment Review Board data from 2012-13 showing overall foreign
investment in
local residential property had fallen 18 per cent in the past two years.

The federal government responded to those warnings from agents this year by asking the House of
Representatives Economics Committee to investigate the impact of foreign investors on the housing
market.

That committee is still investigating.
Liberal MP Kelly O'Dwyer, chairwoman of the House committee, said the board had failed to
prosecute any foreigners for illegally buying Australian homes since 2006, and that it needed to be
called to account.

When asked about negative gearing, Ms O'Dwyer said she had no problem with the practice.

"There are lots of unintended consequences that flow from changing rules such as negative gearing,"
she said.

But Mr Eslake said negative gearing was a greater problem for rising house prices than foreign
investment.

The Grattan Institute says negative gearing costs the federal government $2.4 billion a year, and
there is "little justification for it".

IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

irreal : Residential Real Estate | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icre : Real Estate/Construction |
ireest : Real Estate
ereal : Real Estate Markets | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic
Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FSGEOR0020141006eaa700024

Page49of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.