The Carlyle Group ; The Carlyle Group and Investec Asset Management invest in J&J Africa, a pan-African logistics company

HD

The Carlyle Group; The Carlyle Group and Investec Asset Management invest in J&J Africa, a
pan-African logistics company

4 February 2014
China Weekly News
CHWKNW

WC 1,036 words
PD
SN
SC
PG 205
LA
CY
LP

English
© Copyright 2014 Chemicals & Chemistry via NewsRx.com

TD

2014 FEB 4 (VerticalNews) -- By a News Reporter-Staff News Editor at China Weekly News -- Global
alternative asset manager The Carlyle Group (NASDAQ: CG) and Investec Asset Management, a global
investment manager with African roots, announced that they have agreed to invest in J&J Africa, a
pan-African logistics company specialising in the road transportation of general cargo along the Beira
corridor, one of Southern Africa's key trade routes. Financial terms were not disclosed. The transaction is
expected to close in the first quarter of 2014.

Marlon Chigwende, Managing Director and Co-Head of the Carlyle Sub-Saharan Africa Fund, said:
"Carlyle brings strong expertise working with companies in the transportation sector, along with deep
experience in emerging markets, including Africa. We have a particularly strong track record in partnering
with private, family and entrepreneurial firms and helping them expand to compete on a world stage. By
building on J&J's current service, as well as adding new offerings, we hope to better serve current and
future customers in this fast-growing region. Further, J&J is well positioned to benefit from the fast growth
across Southern Africa, particularly in Mozambique and Zambia."
William Alexander, an Investment Principal in Investec Asset Management's Private Equity team,
commented: "Over the past decade, J&J Africa has built up the pre-eminent transport fleet and logistics
infrastructure in the region. We look forward to working with J&J's highly professional management team
to realise our plans to grow the business further in the coming years."

Founded in 1995, J&J has more than 18 years' experience in cross-border transport within Africa. From
their headquarters in Mozambique, the company has established itself as a reliable and efficient provider
of transport and logistics services to a diversified, international customer base. With 800 trucks and
extensive storage infrastructure, J&J is well-placed to serve Southern Africa, home to some of the fastest
growing economies in the world.

The investment, which was led by Carlyle, is the second investment by Carlyle's Sub-Saharan Africa
Fund, which invests in companies that support the emerging middle class across the Sub-Saharan Africa
region. In November 2012, the Fund made its first investment in Export Trading Group, a global
agricultural supply chain manager based in Tanzania. The investment is the seventh by Investec Asset
Management's Africa Frontier Private Equity Fund, which invests in established companies in Africa with
the objective of supporting the creation of local or regional champions in their respective industries. About
J&J Africa J&J is a transporter and logistics provider specializing in reliable and efficient international
transportation along the Beira Corridor. J&J also offers state of the art warehouse facilities for the
handling of bulk and container cargo. J&J is able to provide high quality logistics solutions on the Beira
corridor. Through experience, development and innovation J&J strives to deliver a superior service for its
clients' needs, which include storage, transportation and the handling of bulk, containerised, project and
out of gauge cargo. For more information visit: www.jjafrica.com About The Carlyle GroupThe Carlyle
Group (NASDAQ: CG) is a global alternative asset manager with $185 billion of assets under
management across 122 funds and 81 fund of funds vehicles as of September 30, 2013. Carlyle's
purpose is to invest wisely and create value on behalf of its investors, many of whom are public pensions.
Carlyle invests across four segments - Corporate Private Equity, Real Assets, Global Market Strategies
and Global Solutions - in Africa, Asia, Australia, Europe, the Middle East, North America and South
America. Carlyle has expertise in various industries, including: aerospace, defense & government
services, consumer & retail, energy, financial services, healthcare, industrial, technology & business

Page213of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.services, telecommunications & media and transportation. The Carlyle Group employs more than 1,400
people in 34 offices across six continents.

Web: www.carlyle.comVideos: www.youtube.com/onecarlyleTweets:
www.twitter.com/onecarlylePodcasts: www.carlyle.com/about-carlyle/market-commentary About the
Carlyle Sub-Sahara Africa (SSA) Team Established in March 2012, the Carlyle SSA team makes buyout
and growth capital investments in private and public companies from offices in Johannesburg, SA and
Lagos, Nigeria. The Carlyle SSA team focuses on transactions where it has a distinctive competitive
advantage and can create tangible value for companies in which it invests, through industry specialization,
deployment of human capital and access to Carlyle's global network. Carlyle's target industries include
consumer goods, logistics, financial services, agribusiness, and energy, and the African-based team has
experience of working in 29 African countries. About Investec Asset Management Investec Asset
Management, an independently managed subsidiary of Investec Group, is a specialist investment
manager providing a premier range of investment products to institutional and individual investors.
Established in 1991, the firm has been built from start-up into an international business managing
approximately (GBP)69.8bn on behalf of third party clients. The business has grown organically from
domestic roots in Southern Africa to a position where we serve a growing international client base from
the Americas, the UK, Continental Europe, Asia, the Middle East, Australia and Africa. Africa remains of
critical importance to us, not only due to its enormous potential, but because it is our home market. We
are uniquely positioned to offer investors access to a broad range of strategies - from public equity
through to credit, sovereign debt and private equity. About the Investec Asset Management Africa Private
Equity Team Investec Asset Management has over $40 billion invested in Africa across all asset
classes. The Investec Africa Frontier Private Equity Fund focuses on growth capital and buyout
investments in established mid-market companies in Africa, with the objective of supporting the creation of
local or regional champions in their respective industries.
Keywords for this news article include: Asia, China, The Carlyle Group, Banking and Finance, Finance
and Investment, Investment and Finance.

Our reports deliver fact-based news of research and discoveries from around the world. Copyright 2014,
NewsRx LLC

CO crlylg : The Carlyle Group | jonjon : Johnson & Johnson
IN

i831 : Financial Investments | ibnk : Banking/Credit | itsp : Transportation/Shipping | ifinal : Financial
Services | iinv : Investing/Securities | i257 : Pharmaceuticals | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles |
i8150203 : Private Equity | i951 : Health Care/Life Sciences | ialtinv : Alternative Investments
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North
America

NS
RE

IPD Expanded Reporting
PUB NewsRx.com
AN

Document CHWKNW0020140131ea240004l

Page214of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.