Bellamy’s IPO to fund foray into Asia

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Bellamy’s IPO to fund foray into Asia

DAMON KITNEY, FLOATS
523 words
12 June 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
19
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

BABY food company Bellamy’s Organic plans to use the proceeds of a $100 million float on the
Australian Securities Exchange to bankroll the launch of new products in the China market, including
offering powdered and liquid milk products to older children.
The Australian understands the major shareholder in the company is Kathmandu founder Jan
Cameron, who will sell $36.6m worth of shares ahead of the initial public offering scheduled for next
month.

The other founding shareholders will sell down shares worth $7.6m in the IPO. Bellamy’s chief
executive Laura McBain said the company was working on new liquid formulas and more innovative
packaging solutions to promote in the China market and was planning a new product launch in
Australia next month.

Launceston-based Bellamy’s, previously known as Tasmanian Pure Foods, has a product range that
includes infant formula, cereals, ready-to-eat meals, snacks and toddler milk.

In Australia, the products are in 3000 outlets including Coles, Woolworths, Chemist Warehouse, Toys
R Us and Big W.
The group now has a 12 per cent share of the local formula and baby food market and Ms McBain
said the proceeds of the raising would be used to fund the group’s booming export business into
China as well as Singapore, Malaysia, Hong Kong, Vietnam and New Zealand.
“This business is going to keep growing and can extend into new categories within the baby food
market,’’ she told The Australian in an interview yesterday.
“In China demand for infant formula goes beyond the age of three, up to the age of 10. There are new
products and innovations we want to bring to that space.’’ Wilson HTM is managing the $95m raising,
which will include new capital of $30m. After a two-day roadshow with more than 100 fund managers
in Sydney and Melbourne this week, it is understood the offer is already dramatically oversubscribed.
Final bids for the bookbuild are due today.

“Demand has been exceptionally good,’’ said Wilson HTM principal Hugh Robertson. “It has hit the
right chord with the institutional market. There is a small group of these high-value brand food stocks
that have got lots of growth potential.’’ Pre-IPO investor documentation, seen by The Australian,
reveals the group is forecasting revenue growth of $83.8m next year, up from $48.2m this year.

Earnings are set to almost triple from $2.6m to $7.3m.

Ms McBain has previously forecast revenues will top $100m over the next two years.

However, the stock will be trading on a hefty price earnings multiple of 19 times forecast 2015
earnings, which has been questioned by some fund managers.

Page182of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“And there are always regulatory risks when you are dealing with infant formula and China,’’ one fund
manager said yesterday.
But Ms McBain said Bellamy’s had built a “deep understanding of the regulatory market in China’.’“We
aren’t just lobbing into the market in an opportunistic way,” she said. “We have developed a name that
has real brand equity in China, Southeast Asia and Australia.’’

i831 : Financial Investments | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
c1711 : Initial Public Offerings | c22 : New Products/Services | c02 : Corporate Changes | c14 : Stock
Listings | c17 : Funding/Capital | c171 : Share Capital | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140611ea6c0002m

IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page183of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.