Australia's Rinehart invests Aus$500 million in China milk deal

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Australia's Rinehart invests Aus$500 million in China milk deal

384 words
15 November 2014
20:15
Agence France Presse
AFPR
English
Copyright Agence France-Presse, 2014 All reproduction and presentation rights reserved.

Mining magnate Gina Rinehart Saturday signed a deal to invest Aus$500 million (US$438 million) in an
Australian dairy project to tap into the multi-billion dollar Chinese infant formula market.

Rinehart, who recently entered into a joint venture to export beef to Asia, said her majority-owned Hope
Dairies would produce pharmaceutical-grade infant formula and UHT, or longlife milk, at a processing
plant in Queensland.

The agreement was reached between Rinehart's mining firmHancock Prospecting and the Queensland
state government.

"Australia has some of the finest agricultural products in the world and we need to position ourselves to
meet the demands of our region," Rinehart, Australia's richest person, said in a statement.
Chinese state-owned engineering firm CAMC and Hope Dairies' Hong Kong-based directors Dave
Garcia and Dano Chan have minority stakes in the company.
The firm has been buying up about 5,000 hectares (12,355 acres) of dairy and arable land in south-east
Queensland over the past year, and plans to process 150 million litres (39 million gallons) annually.
Hope Dairies said it would also buy additional milk from nearby local producers to add to its supply, with
exports expected to start in late 2016.
Industry group Queensland Dairyfarmers' Organisation welcomed the announcement, saying that "China
presents a real opportunity for our industry to form close partnerships to supply high quality dairy
products to their growing population, and in particular infant formula".
Hancock Prospecting in July paid Aus$40 million for a 50 percent stake in two cattle stations in Western
Australia.
Asia's growing middle classes, with their increasing appetite for meat and dairy products, has seen
agricultural exporters such as Australia position themselves as the region's food bowl.
Earlier this year, Australian iron ore mogul Andrew Forrest partnered with three of Asia's leading
agribusinesses to set up a 100-year partnership -- ASA 100 -- that will meet annually.
ASA 100 comprises dozens of members mostly from China and Australia and includes food producers,
distributors and politicians.
China is Australia's largest trading partner and has helped drive the country's economic growth through
its demand for commodities such as iron ore and coal.

grk/bp/erf

CO
IN

hkpros : Hancock Prospecting Pty. Ltd.
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying

Page113of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

austr : Australia | china : China | nswals : New South Wales | queensl : Queensland | sydney : Sydney |
apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater
China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Australia

IPD
PUB Agence France-Presse
AN

Document AFPR000020141115eabf0040h

Page114of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.