MinRes hurting after Aquila rebuff

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
MinRes hurting after Aquila rebuff

Amanda Saunders
443 words
19 June 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
24
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Takeovers - Chairman agrees to deal with Baosteel and Aurizon

Mineral Resources is mulling its options of remaining as a minority shareholder in takeover target Aquila
Resources, or blowing $18 million by exiting days after raiding the miner's register and launching a
counter-offer.

Mineral Resources boss Chris Ellison has been left licking his wounds after Aquila chairman Tony Poli
rebuffed a friendly scrip bid from Mineral Resources and bowed to the certainty of a hostile cash offer
from Baosteel and rail major Aurizon. Mr Poli has agreed to sell his 28.9 per cent Aquila stake into the
bid.
Mineral Resources, a mining services and mineral processing group with a market capitalisation of
about $1.8 billion, put an all-scrip offer, a share swap priced at $3.75, on Monday. On Wednesday the
Aquila board recommended shareholders accept the Bao-Aurizon bid, saying talks with Mineral
Resources had fallen over.

Mineral Resources bought in at $3.75 a share, so selling into the Bao bid would see it take a loss of
about $18 million. It is yet to indicate which way it will move.
Mr Poli will receive $404 million, including his wife's holding, while co-founder Charles Bass will make
$150 million.

Before Mineral Resources launched its counter offer, Mr Poli had been backed into a corner by Bao and
Aurizon making their offer "best and final" last Friday, a day after Mr Ellison confirmed he had raided
Aquila's register.
The share raid was aimed at forming a blocking stake with Mr Poli, who is Aquila's biggest shareholder,
and Mr Bass, who has about 11 per cent. Mr Poli was understood to have been partial to Mineral
Resources involvement. The raid also bought Mineral Resources a seat at the table for the
development of Aquila's $7.4 billion West Pilbara iron ore mine. Mineral Resources paid $197 million
for a 12.78 per cent stake in Aquila in an on-market raid.

"Aquila had discussions with Mineral Resources concerning its [development] proposal [for West
Pilbara] with a view to agreeing a recommended offer," Aquila said on Wednesday. "Aquila and Mineral
Resources were not able to agree terms."

Talks between the two pre-dated the Bao bid.

Baosteel chairman Dai Zhihao wrote to Mr Ellison on Monday threatening that if his bid failed, the West
Pilbara project would have no support - financial or otherwise - from China.
Mr Poli said he would sell his stake in the absence of a superior offer, but added the unusual caveat
that he "reserves his right to revisit this".

Page10of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

aqures : Aquila Resources Ltd. | dorval : Aurizon Mines Ltd | hclamn : Hecla Mining Co
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | igoldm : Gold Ore Mining | imet :
Mining/Quarrying
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cacqu : Acquisitions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020140618ea6j00045

Page11of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.