Labour of love

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Lifestyle
Labour of love

JENNA MEADE
723 words
9 August 2014
Geelong Advertiser
GEEADV
GeelongToday
7
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Jack Bolton’s passion for giving old furniture a new life is becoming more than a hobby, writes
JENNA MEADE

THE back shed is Jack Bolton’s happy place. You’ll find him there most nights after he knocks off
from work as a grounds maintenance manager, whiling away his time sanding back timber and
applying fresh licks of paint.

It’s his passion for giving abandoned furniture a new life that has seen him launch his new furniture
restoration business, Jack of Trades.

The love has always been there – with Jack admitting he’s “always liked to tinker around with
something” – but it wasn’t until he and his wife Stephanie moved into their new Armstrong Creek
home that the venture was born.

“We needed to decorate our house and I was seeing all this furniture at vintage markets and garage
sales and thought ‘I could do that up’,” the 29-year-old says.

“Everyone started encouraging me to sell my designs so my sister Hayley organised a Facebook and
Instagram page and it’s just grown from there.” Most nights, Jack can be found working from his
parents’ shed at their property in Mount Duneed, where they have a shop importing Chinese
antiques and furniture.

He quickly laughs off the suggestion that it was his adoring family who passed the handy restoration
skills down to him.
“As Dad puts it, he couldn’t drive a nail into melted butter,” Jack says, smiling.

When gt speaks to Jack about his handiwork, it quickly becomes clear that this hobby is an art form
and a way of expressing his inner creativity.
“I’m in my own little world when I’m out in the shed,” he says. “I love the process, and I love learning
more about it as I go along. It’s my little slice of quiet time.” The process is simple. Jack stumbles
across furniture – be it from garage sales or free from the side of the road – and gets to work.
“If I like the finish of it, I put it up for sale,” he says, adding that his favourite handmade pieces
throughout his home include a former telephone table, an outdoor setting and an old sideboard
dresser used as a television cabinet in its new life.

From a hardwood bed to pallet shelves and a remodelled desk, Jack’s talents are far-reaching.
But he’s determined for the hobby-turned-business venture to remain a way of giving furniture a new
life, not building new designs.

Page122of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“I’m not into custom designs at the moment – I like being able to make things out of materials that I
come across and restoring existing designs to give them a second shot,” he says.

“I keep finding bits of wood that I can use – from discarded pallets to fence palings from my
grandparents’ house. People will also call and tell me where they’ve seen free furniture on the side of
the road.” His favourite revival so far is an old ice chest he refurbished when a customer contacted
him after seeing his work on Instagram.

“I loved hearing about its history – I found out it was built in 1946, and it was fascinating to see how it
was made back then,” he says.

Jack offers simple advice for those wanting to show a little love to their own furniture: don’t follow the
rules.

“You can make or restore things however you want,” he says.

“Timber can be cut or put up in any way. All you need are some nails and a hammer.

“Definitely have a go – it’s enjoyable.” As well as ongoing support and encouragement from his
tight-knit family, Jack credits Stephanie for inspiring him with ideas.

“Steph’s always sending me ideas and emailing me things that she wants done for the house,” he
says.

While he is content with Jack of Trades being a side project for now, Jack hopes he can turn the
labour of love into a full-time business he can nurture and grow.

“I’d like to get it to a stage where I can have my own shed and workplace in one,” he says.

“Ideally I’d just like to keep tinkering around.”For inquiries, contact Jack at jackbolts@hotmail.com

RE
PUB
AN

victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
News Ltd.
Document GEEADV0020140808ea890003l

Page123of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.