Jones the Grocer, Charlie

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Jones the Grocer, Charlie

by SmartCompany
520 words
16 December 2014
Smart Company
SMACOM
English
© Copyright 2014 Private Media Partners Pty. Ltd. All Right Reserved.

Interior of the Jones the Grocer flagship store in Westfield Sydney CBD

Louis Vuitton-backed gourmet food retailer Jones the Grocer and its sister companies Charlie & Co
and Becasse have collapsed into voluntary administration.

According to a notice published by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission, Jason
Stone, Glenn Franklin and Petr Vrsecky of PKF Lawler Melbourne were appointed administrators of
Jones the Grocer Pty Ltd and its related entities on December 12.

Also in voluntary administration are burger chain Charlie & Co and Becasse Bakery, which were
previously owned by celebrity chef Justin North.

A number of entities related to Jones the Grocer, including its distribution arm Senselle Foods
Distribution, Jones Group Franchising, Jones Group Holdings, Jones the Grocer IP and 3GS
Holdings are also in administration.

Jason Stone told SmartCompany this morning he has been appointed administrator of the Australian
operations, and therefore is not managing the Jones the Grocer stores in New Zealand, United Arab
Emirates, Singapore and Qatar.

Stone says the administration covers the four Jones the Grocer stores in Melbourne and Sydney, as
well as two Charlie & Co outlets and two Becasse outlets, all of which are continuing to trade.
He says together with the Senselle distribution centre, the company employs more than 200 people.

A meeting of creditors for all companies is scheduled to take place in Melbourne on December 24
and Stone says the current plan is to “restructure the company so it can continue to trade".

“There were some internal management issues and the shareholders decided on this formal process
as a means to clean it up," Stone says.

Jones the Grocer was founded by Lindsay Jones in 1996, with the food emporium opening its
flagship store in Woollahra, Sydney. The company sells gourmet food products, including pastries,
coffee, artisan cheese, chocolate, tea and sauces, and was acquired by Melbourne businessman
John Manos in 2005.
The chain has previously received high-profile backing, with L Capital Asia, the private equity arm of
fashion powerhouse and luxury goods retailer Louis Vuitton Moet Hennessy taking a 50% stake in
the business in mid-2012.

Ravi Thakran, managing partner of L Capital Asia, said in a statement at the time Jones the Grocer
was “poised to grow five-fold in five years".

“There are not many opportunities with this kind of potential," Thakran said.

“Its Australian origin represents, on one hand the quality of food and beverages that the country is
famous for and at the same time, the ‘cool’ and ‘hip’ lifestyle Australians reflect so beautifully."

Page81of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“We are excited about expanding this brand into new markets, especially North Asia, South East
Asia and the Middle East."

L Capital Asia has made three other investments in Australia, also purchasing stakes in RM
Williams, sportswear label 2XU and most recently, swimwear brand Seafolly.
According to Fairfax , Jones the Grocer was turning over approximately $33 million in 2012 and had
plans to expand to Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Thailand, China and Japan.

SmartCompany contacted Jones the Grocer and L Capital Asia but did not receive a response prior
to publication.

IN

RE

PUB
AN

i6411 : Supermarkets/Grocery Stores | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i641 : Food Retailing | i654 : Specialty
Stores | iretail : Retail
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | sydney : Sydney | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia
Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South Wales
Private Media Partners Pty Ltd.
Document SMACOM0020141216eacg00007

Page82of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.