Interest-Only Loans a Target for Australian Regulators -- Market Talk

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Interest-Only Loans a Target for Australian Regulators -- Market Talk

1,391 words
23 October 2014
09:21
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

18:21 EDT - Comments this week by Australia's central bank and its prudential regulator reinforce the
view that expected macroprudential policies will include higher borrowing serviceability buffers and
constraints on interest-only mortgages, JPMorgan says. It believes the regulators are prudent in shining
a spotlight on interest-only lending, particularly as the prospects for income growth remain subdued.
Firm notes that about 45% of all new lending is done on an interest-only basis, which accounts for about
65% of investor loans and 30% of owner-occupier loans. JPMorgan adds that given a limited degree of
differentiation between mortgage originating from lenders versus those from brokers, the regulators are
more likely to focus on lending products rather than the channel for mortgages. (robb.stewart@wsj.com;
@RobbMStewart)

18:10 EDT - Roughly 40k new jobs this year can be attributed to ventures that began as so-called
crowdfunding projects, according to a report today by Crowdfund Capital Advisors and The
Crowdfunding Center. The report analyzed more than 150k live projects on crowdfunding websites,
which seek to connect fundraisers to pools of online contributors, typically in exchange for coffee mugs,
T-shirts or other token rewards, or even pre-ordered goods and services. New York, Vermont, Oregon
and California, as well as Washington D.C., were identified as top crowdfunding states, based on the
volume of funded projects and amounts raised. Federal regulators are currently mulling over rules to
allow equity sales via crowdfunding. (angus.loten@wsj.com)

17:59 EDT - Holiday sales should grow by a better-than-average 3.5% this year, according to General
Electric's (GE) consumer financial business, Synchrony Financial (SYF). Synchrony, which GE IPO-ed
this year and will fully split off in 2015, provides store-branded credit cards and consumer financing plans
at some of the country's biggest retailers. The company says seasonally adjusted holiday sales were
$505.5B in November and December 2013. Sales should exceed that amount by more than $17B this
year, the company says. That's more than the 3.3% historical average increase over the last 10 years.
(ted.mann@wsj.com; @TMannWSJ)

17:45 EDT - Moody's downgraded the subprime mortgage loan servicing quality rating of Ocwen
Financial (OCN) to SQ3 from SQ3+ and as a special servicer of residential mortgage loans to SQ3 from
SQ3+. Moody's added that both of those ratings were on review for further downgrade because of
uncertainty over the company's regulatory problems. New York State's financial regulator has issued a
string of challenges to OCN's loan servicing practices, and yesterday said it had found OCN had
backdated thousands of letters to distressed borrowers. Moody's said "these allegations also raise the
risk of actions that restrict Ocwen's activities, the levying of monetary fines against Ocwen, or additional
actions that negatively affect Ocwen's servicing stability." (james.sterngold@wsj.com)

17:45 EDT - Asian equities may trade sideways after US stocks fell, snapping the Dow Jones Industrial
Average's three-day rally, says Peter Young, investment adviser at Forsyth Barr. China's Markit
Economics HSBC preliminary October "flash" manufacturing purchasing managers' index data will be
closely watched for the upcoming session. In New Zealand the NZX-50 is virtually unchanged at
5280.31. Restaurant Brands (RBD.NZ) is up 5.7% at NZ$3.70 after reporting a higher 1H net profit as
sales improved, driven by strong performance from KFC and an increased contribution from the new
Carl's Jr. brand. (rebecca.howard@wsj.com; @FarroHoward)

17:28 EDT - In a letter sent today, Senator Ron Wyden (D., Ore.), urges the Energy Department to follow
through on a recent recommendation by the US Government Accountability Office to reexamine the

Page242of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.amount of oil the nation stores in case of emergencies, which between the federal Strategic Petroleum
Reserve and private reserves is nearly three times what the International Energy Agency requires of its
members. Wyden doesn't take a position on what he thinks should be done, though at some point his
opinion and that of other lawmakers could be important. Any change in the level of the SPR would likely
require an act of Congress, which would be tough to come by in today's gridlock. (amy.harder@wsj.com;
@AmyAHarder)

17:26 EDT - Time Warner (TWX) announcement that it's taking HBO "over the top" next year by offering
a standalone streaming service won the headlines at last week's investor day. But as MoffettNathanson
analyst Michael Nathanson writes in a research note today, just as strategically important is the
company's "increasing proclivity" to sell its content to streaming services like Amazon (AMZN). "In order
to drive earnings, we think Time Warner has now shifted its view from doing what's best for the industry
and ecosystem to what's best for their company," Mr. Nathanson writes. (keach.hagey@wsj.com)

17:26 EDT - It can be tough to come last. Raytheon (RTN) reports 3Q tomorrow, with the Pentagon's
third-largest supplier having watched its four main rivals all report ahead of consensus and raise their
2014 guidance. Boeing (BA) and Lockheed Martin (LMT) fluffed their lines, suffering declines of more
than 4% on report day following cloudy guidance, and Northrop Grumman (NOC) slid on legal and
pension charges. Only General Dynamics (GD) managed an on-the-day gain. Analysts are looking to
RTN for EPS of $1.60, having punished the stock after it left guidance unchanged last time.
(doug.cameron@wsj.com; @dougcameron)

17:14 EDT - General Motors (GM) reports 3Q results tomorrow morning, with analysts expecting
earnings of 97 cents a share, up a cent from a year ago. North America is seen as a driver, with US auto
sales tracking near decade-high demand levels. A major miss here could spell trouble for the company
since industry analysts say GM is now entering an opportune time to wring more profit from the US
market based on its improved portfolio and reduced competition from Ford (F). GM closed today up 1.5%
at $31.31.

17:12 EDT - Ecuador's direct-foreign investment fell 10% to $162M in 2Q from $181M in the year earlier
period, the Central Bank said today. Investment in the oil-and-mining sector made up most of that total
with $92M, followed by the manufacturing sector with $20M. President Rafael Correa's policies of aiming
to gain more control over Ecuador's key sectors have affected foreign investment, economists say.
(mercedes.alvaro@wsj.com)

17:10 EDT - Amid rising optimism, more small firms are ramping up hiring and capital spending plans,
according to the semi-annual American Express OPEN small business monitor. In a survey of 1,130
owners and executives at businesses with fewer than 100 employees, 63% said they had a "positive
outlook" on the economy, a seven-year high; 42% reported higher revenue, up from 38% a year ago.
The gains are driving an upturn in hiring, with 37% expecting to fill jobs over the next six months, up from
35%. More than half plan to spend an average of $72,100 on technology, office equipment,
manufacturing equipment, furnishings and real estate in the months ahead. (angus.loten@wsj.com)

17:07 EDT - California Resources Corp., a subsidiary of Occidental Petroleum (OXY), reported a 20%
decrease in 3Q profit as earnings fell to $188M. The company, due to be spun off Nov. 30, said the
results reflected the impact of higher natural gas prices -- which increased revenue from selling gas but
also added to production costs. That's because California Resources uses natural gas to generate
steam, which is injected underground to push out heavy oil. And despite pumping more oil than a year
ago, the company sold crude at lower prices. (daniel.gilbert@wsj.com; @WSJGilbert)

To contact the Market Talk Editors,
Kevin Kingsbury, 212 416-2354, kevin.kingsbury@wsj.com
Cynthia Lin, 212 416-4403, Cynthia.lin@wsj.com
John Shipman, 212 416-2181, john.shipman@wsj.com
Patrick Sullivan, 212 416-2326, Patrick.sullivan@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

October 22, 2014 18:21 ET (22:21 GMT)

CO
IN
NS

rbkaus : Reserve Bank of Australia
i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i81401 : Central Banking | ifinal : Financial Services
c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | c131 : Regulatory Bodies | emort : Mortgage Rate | mcat :
Commodity/Financial Market News | namt : All Market Talk | ndjmt : Dow Jones Market Talk | neqac :

Page243of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Equities Asset Class News | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e1202 :
Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E
Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
usa : United States | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North
America

RE

PUB Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
AN

Document DJDN000020141022eaam003wt

Page244of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.