Lend Lease prepares to sell its stake in Barangaroo towers

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business - Commercial Property
Lend Lease prepares to sell its stake in Barangaroo towers

Carolyn Cummins
374 words
22 October 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
32
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Lend Lease is closer to selling its stake in Barangaroo South amid speculation a full sale or a joint
venture partner is about to sign a deal.

This was prompted by news that Lend Lease is preparing its balance sheet for a sell-down of its stake
in the Barangaroo office towers, with a proposal to allocate $400.5 million to its subsidiary, Lend Lease
Trust, in a new capitalisation plan.

Property agents have said they understand Lend Lease is talking with domestic and international
investors. An announcement was expected "sooner rather than later".

The plan requires shareholder approval at the Lend Lease annual shareholder meeting, scheduled for
November 14 in Sydney.

The agents said super funds such as ISPT, Cbus and UniSuper would be interested parties, with the
Singaporean, Chinese, British and German funds competing, to take advantage of the weaker
Australian dollar and low interest rates.

If the reallocation proposal is passed next month, the Lend Lease Trust could look to invest directly.
Lend Lease chief executive Steve McCann has repeatedly said every asset of the company is
potentially for sale. He has made it clear that Lend Lease's remaining interest in Barangaroo is on the
market.

In the notice of meeting it says that in 2012 Lend Lease allocated $500 million to the wholesale Lend
Lease International Towers Sydney Trust. This resulted in it holding a 25 per cent indirect stake in the
commercial towers, known as Tower 2 and Tower 3, at the Barangaroo South development in Sydney.
"The Lend Lease group intends to introduce co-investors into Tower 1 at an appropriate time ... Lend
Least Trust may invest in Tower 1 in the future," the notice of meeting says.

In April, Lend Lease unveiled an agreement to reduce its co-investment in the International Towers
Sydney Trust from 25 per cent to 15 per cent via a sale to international pension fund APG. "Also in April
2014, the company announced that the Lend Lease group will commence the development and
funding of 100 per cent of the Barangaroo South commercial building known as Tower 1, via existing
capital sources."

CO
IN
NS

llc : Lend Lease Group
ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction | i85 : Real Estate Transactions
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News
Filter

Page276of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

PUB
AN

austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New
South Wales
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020141021eaam0004s

Page277of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.