Tables turn on Treasury's Rayner

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Tables turn on Treasury's Rayner

1,325 words
31 January 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
34
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Matthew Stevens

If precedent means anything then Treasury Wine Estates' chairman Paul Rayner should be thinking of
sacking himself in the wake of a profit downgrade that wiped a chilling 20 per cent from the wine
maker's share price.

It was Rayner, of course, who despatched former chief executive John Dearie with North Korean
efficiency last September, citing the need for a boss with "a stronger operational focus to deliver the
company's growth ambitions".

No matter what Rayner said at the time, the general conclusion was Dearie paid the ultimate executive
price for a failure to get on top of a collection of legacy issues, the most profit-critical the complex,
troublesome and exchange-rate pressured US business.

A little more than two months before Rayner's board took executive control, TWE was forced to take a
$154.3 million above-the-line provision to pay for the destruction of aged and obsolete US stock and
to cover the writedown on the net realisable value of excess bulk and bottled wine sitting undesired in
US warehouses.

A month on, announcing a flat FY13 result, Dearie confirmed a circa 12 per cent slippage in FY14 profit
guidance despite a reasonably solid outlook for Australia and pretty much everywhere else in the TWE
world except the US.
It had been thus for TWE and its progenitor Foster's Group from the moment it paid $US2.9 billion for
the acquisition of America's Beringer Wine Estates at the turn of the century. For reasons ranging
from a failure to anticipate or manage the surge in the value of the Australian dollar, to the problems
created by the different hemispherical cycles of the business, to managerial dislocation and infighting,
and finally to bare-faced incompetence, that expensive US foothold has generated little but routine
crisis for its Australian owner.

The US investment has never generated anything like its cost of capital and it gets ever harder to
believe it will while it sits within TWE.

Nevertheless, Dearie had to go. Some argue (me included) his dumping was excessively harsh.
The move was never satisfactorily explained to a market whose confidence in TWE was built in part on
faith in the management and its long-term strategy.

What Rayner promised by introducing fellow director Warwick Every-Burns as interim chief
executive was that management would be more operationally focused and that TWE would still hit its
profit range of $230 million to $250 million.

The chairman appears to have delivered neither given Thursday's confirmation that TWE's FY14 EBIT
target range had been trimmed by 16 per cent.

Page243of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The really big problem for Rayner and Every-Burns is that the father of this latest setback is new and
very local misjudgement rather than further stumbling in the US.

In its clipped statement, TWE observed that its interim numbers had been hurt by "higher than
expected volume declines" in the Australian market as a result of a decision to defend margins over the
vital Christmas.

TWE said the first half shortfall - which will see interim profit range between $42m and $46m - will not
be recovered in the second half .TWE warned that the market challenge would endure through the
second half but would not expand on what its response might be. We asked whether the company
was sticking to its Christmas strategy of maintaining margin over volume . We got no answer.

Meanwhile, TWE's efforts to find a replacement for Dearie apparently continue along their systematic
way.

Back in September TWE said it would take upwards of nine months to fill the job. It said yesterday that
it remained on that schedule.
The market's savage reaction to this latest setback says only that June and a firm executive
succession plan cannot come fast enough.

While we are talking market hammerings, how about the lashing handed out to the latest vehicle for
Mark Rowsthorn's ambitions in logistics, McAleese Group?

Having already endured an inauspicious start to publicly listed life, McAleese has now lost two major
petroleum haulage contracts, surrendered another and could yet lose a fourth.

The lost contracts, along with the strategic shift they represent, were plainly an unwelcome shock
for investors. By the close of trade, McAleese shares had plunged 29 per cent to a post-float low of
$1.09.

Given how little those lost and at-risk contracts contribute to the bottom line, one suspects that there
was a degree of over-reaction here.

That said, the sense of market shock is well justified given the result of Thursday's news flow is that
just more than two months after listing, McAleese has been forced to make a fairly profound change to
an operational pillar, namely the Cootes Transport Group.

Cootes is a liquid transport specialist that has long carried fuel for Shell, BP, Caltex, 7-Eleven
and Origin.

But, as things stand now, Cootes has lost the Shell contract to Toll, not even made the shortlist for
BP's latest tender for the NSW business and walked away from a long-standing 7-Eleven fuel gig.
Cootes remains in the tender for BP's national business but given the shift in its approach to tendering,
it is hard to see the trucker retaining that contract either.

So there is a fair chance Cootes could emerge from this period of contract turmoil with just Caltex and
Origin as core customers.

Obviously there can be no question that this collection of contractual setbacks is linked in part to the
involvement of a Cootes petrol tanker in an explosive accident in the Sydney suburb of Mona Vale last
October.

The Cootes truck rolled and exploded, killing two people and injuring five including its driver.

That accident remains the subject of investigation but a subsequent police audit of the Cootes fleet in
NSW and Victoria saw 56 Cootes vehicles taken off the road.
In response, McAleese promptly committed $33 million to a rapid-fire upgrade of the Cootes fleet in
NSW particularly. The need for that spend is instructive in the underlying financial and operational
logics that have driven Cootes to a position of fundamental restructure. The contracts lost and
surrendered generate about $90 million in revenue, which represents about 60 per cent of Cootes
sales and about 30 per cent of McAleese's total revenues. But McAleese chief executive Paul Garaty
insists that Cootes contributes pretty much nothing to his profit lines.
At the same time, Garaty estimates it was going to cost something near $25 million annually over the
next few years to rebuild and sustain the Cootes trucking fleet.

Page244of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.As a result, when Cootes went tendering for its traditional business, it did so at prices that were
patently not competitive. And it walked away from the 7-Eleven business for exactly the same reason.
It is not going to throw capital at a business that does not generate a return.

Which all leaves Cootes facing a restructure of still unspecified in breadth but one that will apparently
see a fair population of its staff seeded away in other corners of the McAleese empire and result in
maybe 130 of its highly specialised oil tankers put on the market.

Fortescue's decade-long transition from glint in Andrew Forrest's eye to profitable investment grade
mining house continues apace with quarterly production hitting new records, mining costs and debt
under firm control, the exchange rate headed in the right direction and its 155 mt a year target
securely in reach.

With all that in place, Fortescue is moving stealthily to add geographic diversity to a marketing effort
that so far depends pretty much exclusively on China and long term contracts.

Boss Nev Power says he is selling small tonnes to Korea while keeping a weather eye out for Japan
custom. He admits some enthusiasm for the potential of tendering into the emerging terminal market.

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

trzwn : Treasury Wine Estates Ltd
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i426 : Wine | ialco : Alcoholic Beverages/Drinks | ibevrge :
Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods
c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c15 : Performance | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140130ea1v0001b

Page245of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.