Forrest aims to beef up trade

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Forrest aims to beef up trade

Julie-anne Sprague
439 words
15 November 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
10
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Exclusive
Mining magnate Andrew Forrest says China doesn't need to buy Australian farms to secure food
supply when it can partner with the nation's farmers to help boost production.

Mr Forrest, who earlier this year bought Western Australia's biggest beef processor Harvey Beef, will
meet representatives from some of China's biggest food producers in Canberra on Saturday, to
secure an agreement he hopes will significantly stimulate agricultural production.
The meeting would be the first attended by both Chinese and Australian participants of Mr Forrest's
ASA 100, which he established earlier this year to strengthen agricultural business between the two
nations.
The agreement is expected to be formally signed by Chinese President Xi Jinping and Prime Minister
Tony Abbott on Monday.
"We have laid out to China what we need to become a prosperous, thriving agricultural industry,
which can multiply our supply [to them]," Mr Forrest told The Australian Financial Review.Free-trade
agreement with China
The comments from the Fortescue chairman come on the cusp of a free-trade agreement with China.

The agreement is expected to cover services, agriculture and some aspects of foreign investment. It
will allow additions for disputed issues in later years.
Australia is also working to secure a deal to export up to 1 million live cattle a year to China, a figure
that was questioned by some in the sector given total exports last year were 1.1 million.
Mr Forrest believes by building relationships with China and improving Australia's food branding,
demand could grow and offer farmers a significant market to offset the domestic market power of
Coles and Woolworths.

"They [retailers] reduce the margins of the grower so severely that they become dangerously
unsustainable," he said. "So you bring in a China. You make Australia to China the safest most
attractive place to import your food from."Mr Forrest said he is underinvested in agriculture and is
seeking to grow his assets, which include Pilbara cattle stations.Competition growing for agricultural
assets
He paid $40 million for Harvey Beef in May, which is WA's only accredited exporter to China.
Mr Forrest's Minderoo has eyed Lactanz Dairies and the Brownes dairy plant, both in WA.

There is growing competition for agricultural assets.

Page120of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Fellow miner Gina Rinehart's Hope Dairies is reportedly planning a $500 million investment to supply
infant formula to China and is looking to acquire about 5000 hectares of farmland in Queensland.

Key points
Agreement sought with China to stimulate agricultural production.

Increased demand could offset the pressure on farmers from retailers.

IN
RE

PUB
AN

i0 : Agriculture
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141114eabf0000z

Page121of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.