China demand to keep property booming

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

TheNation
China demand to keep property booming

GREG BROWN
516 words
25 August 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
3
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

THOUSANDS of Chinese investors piled into a property expo in Sydney’s Town Hall at the weekend
as analysts tipped overseas buyers would keep the city’s inner-city apartment market booming for the
next two years.
About 50 companies jockeyed for the attention of the cashed-up Chinese buyers, with apartment
projects being spruiked by development giants Greenland Holding Group, MAB Corporation and
Frasers Property Australia.

The property frenzy came as Sydney and Melbourne kicked off the spring auction season with strong
results, posting clearance rates of 83.4 per cent and 75.3 per cent respectively on total sales of $545.7
million, according to preliminary figures released by Australian Property Monitors.

“The (auction) results were extraordinarily strong,” said APM senior economist Andrew Wilson. “The
Sydney market just keeps rising. Certainly there is no sign of a waning of activity.” He said a lot of the
buyer action was driven by investors rather than owner-occupiers.
At the Sydney property expo Maggie Wang bought a house in Bellevue Hill, in Sydney’s east, for
about $6m.
Ms Wang, who migrated three years ago, ran an IT and property development company in China and
had recently started a wedding planner business in Australia. She said Chinese interest in Australian
property was about more than just making money.

“People like the lifestyle, the country and the environment, it’s not just about investment,” Ms Wang
said.

Another buyer, 26-year-old Crystal, bought a home in one of Sydney’s wealthiest suburbs, Vaucluse,
for more than $5m, with plans to buy more Australian investment properties.
The expo also featured agencies, such as ABC World, which give Chinese investors advice on
migrating to Australia through avenues such as the Significant Investor Visa. The visa, implemented by
the former federal Labor government, allows foreigners who invest more than $5m in Australia the
potential for permanent residency.
Black Diamondz director Monika Tu, who represents wealthy Chinese looking to buy Australian
homes, said the visa’s introduction had led to a surge in interest for local trophy homes worth more
than $5m.
Ms Tu said inquires to her agency from Chinese property hunters had increased by about 50 per cent
this year.
Also at the expo, one of China’s largest developers, Greenland Holding Group, held expressions of
interest for its second local project, the $200m Lucent apartment tower in North Sydney, while

Page162of416©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Singaporean-backed Frasers Property Australia marketed apartments at its $2 billion Central Park
project at Sydney’s inner-city Chippendale.

The high investor demand for off-the-plan apartments is expected to keep Sydney’s inner-city market in
boom mode for the next two years, according to forecaster BIS Shrapnel.BIS Shrapnel said about 5800
apartments were under construction in Sydney while about 11,500 new apartments would be
completed over the next three years — the biggest number in the city’s history. CBRE managing
director of residential projects David Milton said the uplift in interest from Chinese investors allowed
local apartment developments to stack up financially.

CO
IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

sgregc : Greenland Holding Group Company Limited
i5010022 : Residential Building Construction | i501 : Building Construction | iconst : Construction | icre :
Real Estate/Construction | i5010021 : Land Development/Subdivision
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | china : China | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | nswals : New South Wales
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140824ea8p00047

Page163of416©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.