Dairy plant tips organic milk production to churn out jobs

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Dairy plant tips organic milk production to churn out jobs

SUE NEALES, RURAL REPORTER
481 words
14 October 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
22
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

EXCLUSIVE CREAMING top dollar from organic milk production is the charter of a new $3.5 million
dairy processing plant to be opened tomorrow in Geelong.
The small Organic Dairy Farmers of Australia co-operative has bought a former refrigerated seafood
facility to turn it into a speciality organic cream, butter and cheese factory, with the help of a $600,000
federal government grant designed to create jobs in hard-hit Geelong.

ODFA chief executive Bruce Symons said the new processing facility was all about making the most
profit from the 25 million litres of high-value milk that his 23-co-operative members, including
chairman Terry Hehir, produce annually on their Victorian farms.
Mr Symons said the factory’s organic cream would literally be creamed off milk already being sold to
Parmalat for its popular Paul’s organic milk brand.
But many Paul’s organic milk customers prefer low-fat milk, with the unwanted high-value organic
cream previously being blended back in with Paul’s conventional full-cream milk range; not reaping its
full value.
“We thought, ‘why not do it ourselves and make the most of our organically certified milk?’” Mr Symons
said yesterday.

“So the tankers will now come from our farms. We will take some of the cream off at Geelong and then
send the tankers on their way to the Parmalat factory, with the milk having a little bit of its cream
content reduced; it seemed such a logical step to take.” ODFA co-operative controls about 75 per cent
of national organic milk supply. It recently started to sell its own range of organic cheese, butter and
long-life milk under the brands True Organic. Mr Symons said the organic cream produced at Geelong
would be sold locally and exported, with Korea showing interest.
ODFA is already exporting its long-life organic milk to China, Singapore, Korea and Hong Kong,
where it sells for $5 a litre.
With a 40 per cent milk production growth target in the next three years, more farmers joining their
ranks and organic food companies beating a path to their door, ODFA’s dairy farmers in northern
Victorian, the Western District and Gippsland are being paid handsomely for their efforts.
Organic milk is bought by the ODFA co-op from its farmer members for 60c a litre, 25 per cent per cent
above the price being paid by other processors such as Murray Goulburn and Fonterra for non-organic
milk.The Geelong ODFA factory will be opened tomorrow by federal Industry Minister Ian MacFarlane.
The company is receiving its grant under the government’s Geelong Innovation and Investment Fund
scheme, following the closure of the Alcoa Port Henry refinery in July with the loss of 500 jobs. Mr
Symons expects to employ 25 locals.

IN

i010010502 : Dairy Cattle Farming | i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | iorgf : Organic Food | i413 :
Dairy Products | i0 : Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | i0100105 : Cattle Farming | i41 :

Page6of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp : Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products | ilsfarm : Livestock
Farming
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | cprdop : Facility Openings | c24 : Capacity/Facilities
austr : Australia | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141013eaae00009

NS
RE
PUB
AN

Page7of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.