China ’s richest man to launch $1.7bn local property arm

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

TheNation
China’s richest man to launch $1.7bn local property arm

Rosanne Barrett
403 words
13 August 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
2
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

THE company of China’s richest man will launch into Australia’s property-development market,
creating a $1.7 billion local arm to invest in new projects, including a long-awaited Gold Coast
high-rise complex.
Wanda Commercial Properties, a Hong Kong-listed entity of the Dalian Wanda Group, yesterday
announced it would form Wanda Australia, with funding of up to $HK12.5 billion ($1.74 billion) to
diversify its assets internationally.

As reported in The Australian, Wanda Group has been finalising its plans to launch into the leisure and
resort market on the Gold Coast for a joint venture for the Chinese Ridong Group’s Jewel project.
Yesterday Wanda announced a 55 per cent stake in a joint venture to develop the multi-million dollar
Gold Coast Jewel apartment and hotel complex.
The remaining stake will be held by the Ridong Group’s Riyu Li and Fengliu Wu. Each partner has
granted unconditional put and call options.

“The board believes that given the unique location of the Jewel property and its unobstructed
waterfront views along the Surfers Paradise of Gold Coast, the company is confident it can maximise
the development value of the Jewel property and generate attractive returns on this investment,” it
said.

The Jewel project already has hard-won approval for a triple-tower project on a 1.13ha site, including
110m of beachfront, in Surfers Paradise.

It said it expects the total capital commitment for Wanda to be $290m. The group has also flagged it is
considering other potential property development.

Wanda Commercial Properties and another entity Wanda HK will respectively contribute $HK7.5bn
and $HK5bn to the new Australian entity. It is to be financed through the company’s internal
resources, debt and, or equity financing. The Dalian Wanda Group — headed by China’s richest man,
Wang Jianlin — has embarked on an ambitious international expansion, buying the US’s biggest
movie chain AMC Entertainment, Sunseeker yachts and two London high-rises. It now has its sights
set on Australia.

The Australian revealed Dalian Wanda Group Chair Mr Wang visited Australia to meet Queensland
Premier Campbell Newman Trade Minister Andrew Robb in Canberra.

Canford Property Group’s Roland Evans, who is working with Wanda Group, said he expected the
entry into Australia would be “the start of a wave of investments to come”.PrimeSpace P25

CO
IN

dwgrcl : Dalian Wanda Group Company Limited
i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services

Page304of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS
RE

PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | china : China | dalian : Dalian | liaon : Liaoning | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging
Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140812ea8d0001j

Page305of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.