More Time to Source for Financing of Mbalam/Nabeba Iron Ore Project

by Godlove Bainkong

HD More Time to Source for Financing of Mbalam/Nabeba Iron Ore Project
BY
WC 530 words
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

28 October 2014
16:05
All Africa
AFNWS
English
(c) 2014 AllAfrica, All Rights Reserved

TD

Oct 28, 2014 (Cameroon Tribune/All Africa Global Media via COMTEX) -- According to Sundance
Resources Limited, an Australian firm whose subsidiary, Cam Iron, is bracing up to mine iron ore in
Mbalam, East Region of Cameroon, government has given it additional time to source for financing to
take the hope-raising project off the ground.

Going by the 2014 activity report published by Sundance, "The government of Cameroon has extended
the date to complete the conditions precedent to the Mbalam Convention to at least 30 June 2015. Failure
to achieve the conditions precedent prior to that date will, if no further extension is granted, result in the
cessation of the Mbalam Convention which may be considered an event of default as defined in the
various convertible note deeds in place."

Why The Extension?
When government signed the convention with Cam Iron on November 29, 2012 Cam Iron and its
umbrella firm, Sundance Resources Ltd, were given 18 months (beginning November 29, 2012) to
mobilise at least 4.7 billion dollars, about FCFA 3,000 billion, money needed for the first phase, before it
is served an exploitation permit.

What Path Covered?

As at today, all infrastructure agreements for the project have been signed. After signing the Engineering,
Procurement and Construction (EPC) contract for the construction of ports and rail infrastructure for the
Mbalam-Nabeba Iron Ore Project with Cameroon on June 5 in Yaounde, Sundance Resources and the
Portuguese constructor, Mota-Engils, penned a similar agreement with Congo on June 18, 2014. Also,
MotaaEUREngils Africa was appointed as the EPC contractor to undertake the work for both the port and
rail infrastructure. The role of Mota-Engils consists in providing a detailed design, construction, testing
and commissioning of the 510-km railway from the Mbarga mine in Cameroon to the Mineral Terminal
Facility at Lolabe on the west coast of Cameroon, the 70-km rail spur line from the Nabeba Mine in the
Republic of Congo (Congo-Brazzaville) to the Cameroon railway; and a 35-Mtpa deep water Mineral
Terminal Facility, including stock yards, capable of loading 'China-max' vessels.

How Far With Financing?

Standard Bank from South Africa was also chosen as the financial partner to secure financing over 6-9
months following the signature of the Railway Agreement and the Mineral Terminal Agreement. It will lead
the syndicate of financial institutions that intend to support the project. Standard Bank and Mota-Engil
Africa, sources say, are also advancing plans for an alternative funding strategy based on Build, Own
Operate and Transfer model for port and rail infrastructure.

What Hope?

What makes the project's financing more feasible is the long-term off-take contract Sundance signed with
a leading global commodities trader, Noble Resources International. According to the terms of the
agreement, Noble will buy all the production for the first 10 years of operation outside that allocated to
project equity participants. Stakeholders say the contract with Noble Resources International will help

Page138of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.facilitate completion of debt funding for the construction of the port, rail and mines infrastructure needed
to take off mine production.

CO
IN
NS

RE

sfmn : Sundance Resources Ltd
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gpol : Domestic Politics | gcat : Political/General News | gpir :
Politics/International Relations
camer : Cameroon | africaz : Africa | austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | ceafrz : Central Africa | chinaz : Greater China |
devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

IPD africa
PUB All Africa Global Media
AN

Document AFNWS00020141028eaas0005w

Page139of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.