InterMune Receives FDA Breakthough Therapy Designation For Pirfenidone, An Investigational Treatment For IPF

HD

InterMune Receives FDA Breakthough Therapy Designation For Pirfenidone, An Investigational
Treatment For IPF

WC 1,170 words
PD
18 July 2014
ET
02:38
SN
PR Newswire (U.S.)
SC
PRN
LA
English
CY
Copyright © 2014 PR Newswire Association LLC. All Rights Reserved.
LP

TD

BRISBANE, Calif., July 17, 2014 /PRNewswire/ -- InterMune, Inc. (Nasdaq: ITMN) today announced that
pirfenidone has been granted Breakthrough Therapy Designation from the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration (FDA). This designation is reserved for drugs that are intended to treat a serious or life
threatening disease or condition and preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the drug may demonstrate
substantial improvement over existing therapies on one or more clinically significant endpoints. As
described in the FDA Fact Sheet: Breakthrough Therapies, "If a drug is designated as breakthrough
therapy, FDA will expedite the development and review of such drug." In May, InterMune resubmitted its
New Drug Application (NDA) for pirfenidone and noted a target FDA review of six months under the
Prescription Drug User Fee Act. Pirfenidone is an investigational treatment for adult patients with
idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF).

"The Breakthrough Therapy Designation underscores the significant need to help patients with this
irreversible and ultimately fatal disease, particularly as no FDA-approved therapies are currently
available," said Dan Welch, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President of InterMune. "We are
pleased that the FDA recognized the importance of pirfenidone as a potential new therapy for IPF, a
disease with great unmet medical need."

About Pirfenidone

Pirfenidone is an orally active, anti-fibrotic agent that inhibits the synthesis of TGF-beta, a chemical
mediator that controls many cell functions including proliferation and differentiation, and plays a key role in
fibrosis. Pirfenidone also inhibits the synthesis of TNF-alpha, a cytokine that is known to have an active
role in inflammation.

On February 28, 2011, the European Commission (EC) granted marketing authorization for Esbriet(R)
(pirfenidone) for the treatment of adults with mild to moderate IPF. The approval authorized marketing of
Esbriet in all 28 EU member states. Esbriet has since been approved for marketing in Norway and
Iceland. In 2011, InterMune launched commercial sales of pirfenidone in Germany under the trade name
Esbriet, and Esbriet is now also commercially available in various European countries, including key
markets such as France, Italy and the UK.

On October 1, 2012, Health Canada approved Esbriet for the treatment of mild to moderate IPF in adult
patients. Health Canada designated Esbriet for Priority Review and completed the accelerated review
according to target guidelines of 180 days. InterMune launched Esbriet in Canada in January 2013.

Pirfenidone has been marketed as Pirespa(R) since 2008 in Japan and since 2012 in South Korea by
Shionogi & Co. Ltd. Under different trade names, pirfenidone is also approved for the treatment of IPF in
China, India, Argentina and Mexico.
Pirfenidone is not approved for sale in the United States.

About IPF

Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is an irreversible and ultimately fatal disease characterized by
progressive loss of lung function due to fibrosis (scarring) in the lungs, which hinders the ability of lungs to
absorb oxygen. IPF inevitably causes shortness of breath, and a deterioration in lung function and

Page145of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.exercise tolerance. IPF patients follow different and unpredictable clinical courses and it is not possible to
predict if a patient will progress slowly or rapidly, or when the rate of decline may change. Periods of
transient clinical stability in IPF, when they occur, inevitably give way to continued disease progression.
The median survival time from diagnosis is two to five years, with a five-year survival rate of approximately
20-40 percent, which makes IPF more rapidly lethal than many malignancies, including breast, ovarian
and colorectal cancers. IPF typically occurs in patients over the age of 45, and tends to affect slightly
more men than women.

About InterMune
InterMune is a biotechnology company focused on the research, development and commercialization of
innovative therapies in pulmonology and orphan fibrotic diseases. In pulmonology, the company is
focused on therapies for the treatment of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), a progressive, irreversible,
unpredictable and ultimately fatal lung disease. Pirfenidone is approved for marketing by InterMune in the
EU and Canada under the trade name Esbriet(R). Pirfenidone is not approved for sale in the United
States. InterMune's research programs are focused on the discovery of targeted, small-molecule
therapeutics and biomarkers to treat and monitor serious pulmonary and fibrotic diseases. For additional
information about InterMune and its R&D pipeline, please visit www.intermune.com.

Forward-Looking Statements

This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 21E of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, that reflect InterMune's judgment and involve risks and
uncertainties as of the date of this release, including without limitation the potential for pirfenidone to be
approved as a medicine to IPF patients in the United States and the anticipated FDA review period of its
NDA for pirfenidone. All forward-looking statements and other information included in this press release
are based on information available to InterMune as of the date hereof, and InterMune assumes no
obligation to update any such forward-looking statements or information. InterMune's actual results could
differ materially from those described in InterMune's forward-looking statements.

Other factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those
discussed in detail under the heading "Risk Factors" in InterMune's most recent annual report on Form
10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on February 24, 2014 (the "Form 10-K")
and other periodic reports filed with the SEC, including but not limited to the following: (i) the risks related
to the uncertain, lengthy and expensive clinical development process for the company's product
candidates, including having no unexpected safety, toxicology, clinical or other issues and having no
unexpected clinical trial results such as unexpected new clinical data and unexpected additional analysis
of existing clinical data; (ii) risks related to the regulatory process for the company's product candidates,
including the possibility that the results of the new 52-week Phase 3 clinical trial (ASCEND) having an
FVC endpoint may not be satisfactory to the FDA for InterMune to receive regulatory approval for
pirfenidone in the United States; (iii) risks related to unexpected regulatory actions or delays, in particular
in connection with our resubmission of a Class 2 NDA with the FDA seeking approval of pirfenidone or
other government regulation generally; (iv) risks related to our ability to successfully launch and
commercialize pirfenidone in the United States, if approved by the FDA and (v) InterMune's ability to
obtain or maintain patent or other proprietary intellectual property protections. The risks and other factors
discussed above should be considered only in connection with the fully discussed risks and other factors
discussed in detail in the Form 10-K and InterMune's other periodic reports filed with the SEC, all of which
are available via
InterMune's web site at www.intermune.com.

Logo - http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20120827/SF62570LOGO

SOURCE InterMune, Inc.

/
Investors: Jim Goff, InterMune, Inc., 415-466-2228, jgoff@intermune.com. | Web site:

CT
CO intphr : Intermune Inc | usfda : U.S. Food and Drug Administration
IN

i257 : Pharmaceuticals | i2573 : Cancer Drugs | i951 : Health Care/Life Sciences | idrugty :
Drugs/Medication
c23 : Research/Development | gtrea : Medical Treatments/Procedures | npress : Press Releases | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ghea : Health | ncat : Content Types
austr : Australia | eecz : European Union Countries | queensl : Queensland | usa : United States | apacz :
Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | eurz : Europe | namz : North America

NS

RE

Page146of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IPC AEQI
PUB PR Newswire Association, Inc.
AN

Document PRN0000020140717ea7h000h6

Page147of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.