* Expedia, Inc. Completes Acquisition Of Wotif Group >EXPE

*Expedia, Inc. Completes Acquisition Of Wotif Group >EXPE

HD
WC 1,093 words
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

14 November 2014
15:00
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

13 Nov 2014 23:00 ET Press Release: Expedia, Inc. Completes Acquisition Of Wotif Group
Expedia, Inc. Completes Acquisition Of Wotif Group

TD

PR Newswire

BELLEVUE, Wash. and BRISBANE, Australia, Nov. 13, 2014

BELLEVUE, Wash. and BRISBANE, Australia, Nov. 13, 2014 /PRNewswire/ -- Expedia, Inc. (NASDAQ:
EXPE) and Wotif.com Holdings Limited (Wotif Group) today announced completion of the acquisition of
Wotif Group by Expedia, Inc. for total cash consideration of A$703 million or A$3.30 per share (equivalent
to US$612 million or US$2.87 per share based on November 13, 2014 exchange rates). The total
consideration of A$703 million was comprised of a A$51 million special dividend distributed by the Wotif
Group to its shareholders before closing and A$652 million in cash from Expedia, Inc.
In the coming weeks, Expedia, Inc. expects to work with the Wotif Group team to conclude its ongoing
evaluation of the available long-term strategic options for the Wotif Group businesses with an eye towards
strengthening the potential of the Wotif Group's brands for its customers and partners. In the meantime,
both companies will continue operating under a "business as usual" philosophy.
"We are thrilled to officially welcome Wotif Group and its terrific brands to the Expedia, Inc. family," said
Dara Khosrowshahi, President and Chief Executive Officer, Expedia, Inc. "This acquisition will allow us to
continue expanding our business in the Asia-Pacific region and will allow Wotif Group's customers and
partners to benefit from Expedia, Inc.'s global portfolio."
"This is an exciting milestone, and an important one for the Wotif Group team," said Scott Blume,
Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Wotif Group. "By aligning ourselves with a powerful
global leader in online travel we have taken a vital strategic step forward in our effort to revitalize the
iconic brands of the Wotif Group. We simply couldn't ask for a better partner than Expedia, Inc.," added
Blume.
Wotif Group operates online travel brands in the Asia-Pacific region including, Wotif.com,
lastminute.com.au, travel.com.au, Asia Web Direct, LateStays.com, GoDo.com.au and Arnold Travel
Technology. Its multi-product portfolio focuses primarily on hotel and air, offering consumers more than
29,000 bookable properties in destinations around the world.

Forward-Looking Statements

This release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. These forward-looking
statements are based on Expedia, Inc.("Expedia") or Wotif.com Holdings Limited ("Wotif Group"), as
appropriate, management's expectations as of the date hereof and assumptions which are inherently
subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Any statements
that are not statements of historical fact (including statements containing the words "will," "allow,"
"believe," "expects" or variations of such words, or similar expressions, or other comparable terminology,
including estimates) should also be considered forward-looking statements. Similarly, statements herein
regarding the consummation and future impact of the Wotif Group transaction and other statements of

Page222of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Expedia or Wotif Group management's beliefs, intentions or goals are also forward-looking statements. It
is uncertain whether any of the events anticipated by the forward-looking statements will transpire or
occur, or if any of them do, what impact they will have on Expedia's results of operations, financial
condition or the price of its stock. These forward-looking statements involve certain risks and uncertainties
that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in such forward-looking statements,
including but not limited to the possibility that Expedia may not have the ability to achieve the expected
benefits from the acquisition, as well as other risks and important factors detailed in our public filings with
the SEC, including our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013 and
subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to
update any forward-looking or other statements in this release, whether as a result of new information,
future events or otherwise.

About Expedia, Inc.

Expedia, Inc. is one of the world's largest travel companies, with an extensive brand portfolio that includes
leading online travel brands, such as:

--

Expedia.com(R), the world's largest full service online travel agency

with localized sites in 31 countries

-- Hotels.com(R), the hotel specialist with localized sites in more than 60

countries

12

-- Hotwire(R), a leading discount travel site that offers opaque deals in

countries throughout North America, Europe and Asia

-- Egencia(R), the world's fifth largest corporate travel management

company

-- eLong(TM), a leading mobile and online travel service provider in China
-- Venere.com(TM), the online hotel reservation specialist in Europe
-- trivago(R), a leading online hotel metasearch company with sites in 49

countries

of

-- Wotif.com, lastminute.com.au, travel.com.au, Asia Web Direct,

LateStays.com, GoDo.com.au and Arnold Travel Technology, and a network
other travel content and destination websites, such as Phuket.com and
Bangkok.com operated by the Wotif Group in the Asia-Pacific region

-- Expedia Local Expert(R), a provider of online and in-market concierge

services, activities, experiences and ground transportation in hundreds
of destinations worldwide

-- Classic Vacations(R), a top luxury travel specialist
-- Expedia(R) CruiseShipCenters(R), a provider of exceptional value and
expert advice for travelers booking cruises and vacations through its
network of 180 franchise locations across North America

-- CarRentals.com(TM), the premier car rental booking company on the web.
The company delivers consumers value in leisure and business travel, drives incremental demand and
direct bookings to travel suppliers, and provides advertisers the opportunity to reach a highly valuable
audience of in-market consumers through Expedia Media Solutions. Expedia also powers bookings for
some of the world's leading airlines and hotels, top consumer brands, high traffic websites, and thousands
of active affiliates through Expedia(R) Affiliate Network. For corporate and industry news and views, visit
us at www.expediainc.com or follow us on Twitter @expediainc.
Trademarks and logos are the property of their respective owners. (c) 2014 Expedia, Inc. All rights
reserved. CST: 2029030-50

Page223of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Logo - http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20130822/SF68326LOGO-a

SOURCE Expedia, Inc.
/Web site: http://www.expediainc.com

Access Investor Kit for Expedia, Inc.

Visit http://www.companyspotlight.com/partner?cp_code=A591&isin=US30212P3038

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

November 13, 2014 23:00 ET (04:00 GMT)

CO expdia : Expedia Inc. | wtfcpl : Wotif.com Holdings Ltd
IN
NS

i77001 : Travel Agencies | ilea : Leisure/Arts/Hospitality | itourm : Tourism
cacqu : Acquisitions | c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | usa : United States | uswa : Washington State | apacz : Asia Pacific |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North America | queensl : Queensland | usw : Western U.S.

RE

PUB Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
AN

Document DJDN000020141114eabe000l2

Page224of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.