Treasury Wine Warning Sinks Investor Hopes

HD
BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Treasury Wine Warning Sinks Investor Hopes

By Ross Kelly
633 words
30 January 2014
16:48
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

SYDNEY--Investors in Australia's TreasuryWine Estates Ltd. are accustomed to bad news. But what
the world's No. 2 winemaker said on Thursday must have disappointed even the most optimistic
among them.
The maker of vintages ranging from the mass-market Beringer brand to the prestigious Penfolds
Grange said it expected operating earnings in its financial year through June of between 190 million
Australian dollars (US$166 million) and A$210 million.

The top end of that range is A$20 million below the bottom of the company's October guidance of
between A$230 million and A$250 million.
Even the lower end of the revised guidance could be in doubt, given the company anticipates
earnings in the first half of its financial year of A$46 million at most.
The vintner's bleak statement crushed what hopes there might have been that the company was near
turning the corner following six months of turmoil that has seen its chief executive dismissed and
thousands of gallons of unsold wine poured down the drain. Its shares fell as much as 22% in Sydney.
Treasury Wine, whose other labels include Greg Norman Estates, St. Clement, Stag's Leap and
Lindeman's, pinned the earnings downgrade on difficult conditions in the U.S., China and Australia.
The problems in the U.S. were well documented in July, when the Melbourne-based company
announced a A$155 million charge incurred after overestimating demand there. The miscalculation
forced Treasury Wine to steeply discount or destroy older vintages that had passed their drink-by
date.
About two months later, the company dismissed its chief executive, David Dearie, and still hasn't
found a new one. A previously nonexecutive member of the board, Warwick Every-Burns, remains his
temporary replacement.

"Any investor should be skeptical," said Brad King, a Melbourne-based portfolio manager at Armytage
Capital, which sold all its Treasury Wine shares last year. "There's no one running the place and the
current board is part of the old regime. Any new CEO's probably going to wipe the slate clean, so
there's further risks to the downside."
Another disappointment was China, once seen by the company as a beacon of hope. Prospects for
its premium wines there have soured as economic growth continues to slow and Beijing clamps down
on extravagant gift-giving among businesses and government officials as part of an anticorruption
drive.
China accounts for about a fifth of Treasury Wine's sales volume in Asia, according to some analysts.

In Australia, the vintner's decision to lift prices on some of its cheaper labels over the Christmas
holiday appears to have backfired--hurting sales over a normally buoyant period.

Page37of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Wine imports to Australia have also jumped in recent years, particularly from New Zealand, which
produces white varietals such as Sauvignon Blanc that have steadily gained a reputation for quality
and value. Government figures show imports account for about 16% of Australia's wine market,
compared with around 7% seven years ago.
Treasury Wine also said U.S. sales remained lackluster, with costs rising following heavier
investments in branding. Australian wines rose to prominence in the U.S. during the 1990s, but their
appeal has waned as South American exporters boosted their output.

"All three divisions appear to be struggling, given a multitude of reasons, but most likely reflecting a
lack of leadership and direction," said Daniel Broeren, a Sydney-based analyst at CIMB, in a note to
clients.
Treasury Wine said it would provide a fuller update of its operations at its first-half results on Feb. 20.

Write to Ross Kelly at ross.kelly@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

January 30, 2014 00:48 ET (05:48 GMT)

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

autry : Australia Treasury | trzwn : Treasury Wine Estates Ltd
iwmerch : Wine Merchants | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i424 : Distilling | ibevrge :
Beverages/Drinks | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i642 : Cigarette/Newspaper/Liquor Stores | i654 : Specialty
Stores | ialco : Alcoholic Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods | iretail : Retail | i426 : Wine
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document DJDN000020140130ea1u000ki

Page38of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.