Chinese group to make $70m splash in South Perth

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Chinese group to make $70m splash in South Perth

Dan Wilkie
401 words
21 August 2014
Business News
WABN
English
© Copyright 2014 Business News Pty Ltd.

Chinese developer JiaHe Jian Group has launched its first Western Australian project - a $100
million, two-tower office and residential development overlooking the zoo in South Perth.
JiaHe Jian Group's Australian subsidiary, Zone Q Investments, received development approval for
the project late last week, which comprises a $70 million, 20-storey luxury apartment tower, and a
$30 million, seven-level commercial building alongside.

The project, which will be located on the corner of Charles Street and Labouchere Road, is
scheduled to be complete by 2016, with construction set to start within months
The apartment tower, Pinnacle, has been designed by architecture firm Hassell and will comprise
102 apartments, while the office tower will include retail space along Charles Street.
Zone Q purchased the development site last year for $10.7 million.
The apartments will be put to market by Colliers International and Dempsey Real Estate, while the
commercial space will be brokered through Knight Frank and Ron Farris Real Estate.
Colliers International director of residential Jo-Anne Chin said Zone Q had looked closely at all
major national markets before choosing Perth for its first Australian development.
Ms Chin said the developer was planning further projects in WA, with two other sites purchased in
recent months.
JiaHe Jian Group has developed more than 7,000 apartments in China, focusing on the city of
Shenzhen, north of Hong Kong.
"This is a company that puts significant thought and planning into its apartment developments -
everything from location, to size, to construction, to standard of finishes - and is committed to
delivering top quality homes that people value and enjoy living in," Ms Chin said.
"That they have selected Perth as the site of their first overseas investment and development, and
are already planning more, speaks to the confidence they have in our market and the opportunities
they see for quality residential offerings here."
The development is the second large apartment and office project launched in South Perth in recent
months, following Finbar Group's $300 million plan at the Civic Triangle site on Labouchere Road.
Finbar is planning a 30-storey, 295-apartment residential tower with commercial and retail space
on the ground level, including a 2,500 square metre supermarket.
The apartment developer purchased the Civic Triangle development site for $27.3 million, in a
transaction brokered by commercial agency JLL.

IN

i5010022 : Residential Building Construction | i501 : Building Construction | iconst : Construction |
icre : Real Estate/Construction

Page49of343©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

PUB
AN

austr : Australia | china : China | perth : Perth | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific |
asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Business News Pty Ltd
Document WABN000020140821ea8l0002t

Page50of343©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.