Rinehart to milk China ’s dairy fix

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

TheNation
Rinehart to milk China’s dairy fix

Rick Wallace
461 words
14 November 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
9
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

EXCLUSIVE MINING magnate Gina Rinehart plans to join forces with a Chinese industrial giant in a
$500 million joint venture to export infant milk powder from Queensland to China.
It is believed Mrs Rinehart’s flagship companyHancock Prospecting will be the majority stakeholder
in the Hope Dairies partnership, which will own farmland and build a processing facility in southeast
Queensland.

The Chinese partner is believed to be the China National Machinery Industry Corporation, a
state-owned enterprise that has been looking to invest in Australian dairy operations for some time.
The Beijing-based group is a sprawling conglomerate with more than 100,000 employees.

It has interests in manufacturing farm machinery and has been ramping up its investments overseas.

The move, expected to be announced by Queensland Premier Campbell Newman tomorrow, comes
just days ahead of the expected announcement of a free-trade agreement between Australia and
China that will potentially lower tariffs on dairy exports from Australia.
Much of China’s imported infant formula now comes from New Zealand, which has a free-trade pact
with Beijing.
Demand for imported milk powder in China has soared since a poisoning scandal in 2008 turned
consumers off the local product.

The Australian understands the Hope Dairies joint venture has recently invested in a number of farms
in southeast Queensland to supply the proposed plant.

While mining remains Mrs Rinehart’s main game, it is believed her move is motivated by her belief in
Australia as a food bowl supplying produce to rapidly growing Asian markets, and her desire to
ensure the sector remains Australian owned.
She has recently moved to buy a 50 per cent stake in two large cattle properties in Western
Australia’s Kimberley for $40m as she steps up her financial interests in the sector.

A spokesman for Hancock Prospecting said: “Mrs Rinehart has had a life-long association with
agriculture in Australia and this export project will be a great boost for the Queensland dairy industry
and the country.” Chinese investors have been circling Australia’s agricultural sector for years and
last year famously bought Cubbie Station, the largest irrigated property in the southern hemisphere.
Recent interest from China has been in milk production. The Australian recently revealed that the
Chinese-government-owned Beijing Agricultural Investment Fund had committed to spending $3
billion on Australian dairy, beef, lamb and aquaculture assets.

Page238of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Details of the Hope Dairies venture are expected to be revealed tomorrow, when Mr Newman
presides over the signing of a memorandum of understanding between Mrs Rinehart and the
Sinomachgroup.Mrs Rinehart, Australia’s richest person, recently bought a $14m property in
Brisbane, setting a new record for a house sale in the Queensland capital.

CO

IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

cnamyi : China National Machinery Industry Corporation | hkpros : Hancock Prospecting Pty. Ltd. |
qudpc : Queensland Department of the Premier and Cabinet
i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i010010502 : Dairy Cattle Farming | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i0 :
Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | i0100105 : Cattle Farming | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i413 :
Dairy Products | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | icnp : Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products
| ilsfarm : Livestock Farming | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i32 : Machinery | iindstrls : Industrial Goods
c184 : Joint Ventures | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141113eabe00019

Page239of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.