Weekly news through Oct. 24

The Week in Asian Real Estate; Exclusive

SE
HD Weekly news through Oct. 24
BY Megan Zhao
WC 1,078 words
PD
SN
SC
VOL Issue: 82747
LA
CY
LP

English
Copyright 2014. SNL Financial LC

28 October 2014
SNL Real Estate Daily: Asia-Pacific Edition
REAP

TD

Deal of the week
Shanghai-based Shimao Property Holdings Ltd. just won a Hong Kong government land tender for the
first time, amid growing interest from mainland developers in the city's property market as they search for
diversification.

A venture between the company and mainland commercial developer Mingfa International paid HK$1.83
billion for a hotel site in Tung Chung, Hong Kong, outbidding Sino Land Co. Ltd., Sun Hung Kai
Properties Ltd., Regal Hotels International Holdings Ltd., Dorsett Hospitality International and Tak
Cheung.
The plot has a site area of about 12,902 square meters and a maximum gross floor area of 56,715 square
meters. It sits close to the Hong Kong - Zhuhai - Macau Bridge, which will connect the three major cities
in the Pearl River Delta upon its completion in 2016.
Shimao is expected to invest more than 3 billion Chinese yuan to provide an estimated 1,100 rooms,
according to Chinese newspaper Wen Wei Po.

Strategy plays
* China's biggest commercial property developer by sales, Wanda Commercial Properties, is planning
to increase its current $30 billion annual turnover to $100 billion by 2020 through global property
development. Since its first move overseas into London in 2013, the company has moved into Spain,
Australia and the U.S.
* Singapore's largest private property developer, Far East Organization, is looking to become one of
Australia's biggest developers in the long term by introducing a range of retail, hospitality and residential
products to the market. The company has built a portfolio worth A$1.4 billion through the acquisition of six
office properties in Sydney and Perth in 2014.
* As competition heats up with a clutch of Chinese and Singaporean groups targeting Australia for
long-term expansion, local player Charter Hall Retail Real Estate Investment Trust will roll back
acquisitions for the remainder of 2014 amid compressing yields and focus more on redevelopments.

Rumor mill

* Lend Lease Corp. Ltd. is tipped to be off-loading its stake in the Barangaroo South project in Sydney,
The Sydney Morning Herald reported. The company is thought to be nearing a deal to either sell the
project or sign a deal with a joint venture partner, subject to shareholder approval at the annual
shareholder meeting scheduled for Nov. 14. Interested parties could potentially include superfunds such
as ISPT, Cbus and UniSuper, as well as funds from Singapore, China, Great Britain and Germany.
* Following Frasers Centrepoint Ltd.'s takeover of Australand Property Group, compatriot City
Developments Ltd. is thought to be nearing a deal to buyLeighton Properties' commercial and
residential business, which could fetch about A$500 million, reflecting the value of Leighton's A$7 billion
development pipeline, The Australian reported. City Developments is said to be in advanced stages of due
diligence and has established three Australian entities.

Page109of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Eye on earnings
* China Overseas Land & Investment Ltd. posted a 12.6% year-over-year increase in turnover, totaling
HK$61.18 billion for the nine months ended Sept. 30. Operating profit amounted to HK$22.14 billion, an
increase of 13.4% from the year-ago period.

* CapitaMall Trust said its third-quarter distributable income rose 5.6% to S$93.7 million from S$88.8
million in the year-ago period.
* Cambridge Industrial Trust said its third-quarter net property income rose 1.8% on a year-over-year
basis to S$19.7 million.

Other news
Singapore's GIC has snapped up the much-anticipated sale of Pacific Century Place Marunouchi in
Tokyo, which was billed as the city's biggest office deal in six years.
The sovereign wealth fund is said to have paid $1.7 billion for the property, Bloomberg News reported,
citing a person familiar with the purchase. Vendor Secured Capital bought the property for about ¥144
billion in 2009 and initially asked for ¥180 billion in this sale.
GIC is understood to have outbid the asset management unit of Goldman Sachs Group Inc.

Now featured on SNL

The Eastern Front: DLF's capital markets ban a blow to Indian REITs: Watchers of the Indian REIT market
might have to wait longer for a heavyweight player, as the country's largest landlord, DLF, is prohibited
from accessing the capital markets for three years.
Q&A: Bets placed on Japan gaming; hotels cope with anti-corruption measures in China: SNL Financial
talked to Jesper Palmqvist, area director for Asia Pacific at hotel research and consultancy firm STR
Global, about his views on the global gaming giants' jostling for position in Japan and how hoteliers are
handling the impact of the corruption crackdown in China.
Q&A: CDL Hospitality Trusts eyes Japan: At this year's Hotel Investment Conference Asia Pacific in Hong
Kong, SNL Financial met up with Vincent Yeo Wee Eng, CEO of CDL Hospitality Trusts. Yeo shared his
views on the company's strategies and the proposed REIT rule changes in Singapore.
Q&A: Jones Lang LaSalle's Scott Hetherington on APAC hotel investment: SNL Financial sat down with
Scott Hetherington, CEO Asia of Jones Lang LaSalle's Hotels & Hospitality Group, to discuss the
transaction environment and trends in 2014.
Conference Chatter: Asian markets ready for more hospitality REITs: At this year's HICAP in Hong Kong,
industry players were upbeat about the spread of hospitality REITs in the region.
Data Dispatch: Metro Manila CBDs in the limelight of Philippine real estate growth: The central business
districts of Makati City and Fort Bonifacio in the Metro Manila area were the epicenters of office and
residential real estate investment in the country in the second quarter.
Asian property transactions to Oct. 24: City Developments is poised to nab Leighton Properties'
commercial and residential business; the U.K.'s InterContinental is mulling a sale of its Hong Kong
flagship hotel; and Keppel Land divests a stake in a Saudi Arabia project.
IPO Monitor for the week ending Oct. 22: The IPO Monitor tracks international real estate companies
debuting on the exchanges.
Hires and Fires: European, Asian real estate moves through Oct. 20: SNL Financial presents a weekly
rundown of recent significant management and board changes and personnel moves in the European
and Asia-Pacific real estate industries.
Research Roundup: European/Asian Real Estate edition for the week ending Oct. 23:
Deutsche Wohnen, Accor and Unite Group are on the radar for analysts this week.

CO rhh : Regal Hotels International Holdings Ltd | shkp : Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd | shmpoh : Shimao

Property Holdings Ltd | sinol : Sino Land Co Ltd | sinor : Tsim Sha Tsui Properties Ltd
ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction | i66 : Hotels/Restaurants | i665 : Lodgings | i6651 :
Hotels (except Casino)/Motels | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | ilea : Leisure/Arts/Hospitality | itourm :
Tourism

IN

Page110of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

RE

c182 : Asset Transactions | ereal : Real Estate Markets | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate
Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic
News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | hkong : Hong Kong | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia
| ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | nswals : New South Wales

IPD Real Estate Property Transactions & Development
PUB SNL Financial LC
AN

Document REAP000020141031eaas00002

Page111of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.