China ’s richest in Cairns

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
China’s richest in Cairns

NICK DALTON
410 words
12 July 2014
The Cairns Post
CAIRPO
Cairns
3
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

CHINA’S richest man Wang Jianlin has visited Cairns as part of an investment tour of Australia.

Mr Wang, who is said to be worth $14.2 billion, dined with about eight of his associates at the Golden
Boat Restaurant in Lake St.

Restaurant manager Veronica Lau confirmed he had dinner at the venue but would not elaborate any
further.

She said she did not know what else Mr Wang or his party did while in the Far North.
His visit was kept under wraps but his company, the $67b Dalian Wanda Group, is finalising plans to
launch into the Australian market with a grand leisure and hotel resort on the Gold Coast.
Roland Evans of the Gold Coast-based Canford Property Group said Mr Wang was interested in all
parts of the east coast of Australia, had considered and ruled out prospects in Townsville.

He said he did not know if Mr Wang visited Cairns but if he or some of his associates had it would have
been for recreational purposes.

Mr Evans said he did not believe the proposed $8.15b Aquis resort and casino project had any bearing
of the visit to Cairns.
He said Mr Wang and the group were mainly focused on the Gold Coast and Sydney. The Dalian
Wang group is understood to be in the final stages of negotiations to buy into a Surfers Paradise
development site spanning 1.13ha, including 110m of absolute beachfront.
The site is owned by the Australian arm of China’s Ridong Group, proponents of the stalled Jewel
development. It is understood Ridong sought an international partner to develop its $1 billion
triple-tower project, which had hard-won development approvals, and Wanda continues to negotiate as
a potential majority joint venture partner.
Wanda has ambitions to become the world’s largest hotel chain and Surfers Paradise would be its
Australian launch site. Ridong had previously been in discussions with international luxury hotel
management company Aman Resorts.
It is believed plans for the site are similar to its $1.27b One Nine Elms development in Vauxhall,
London, which features a five-star hotel, 490 apartments and shops across two high-rises.Mr Wang
spent at least two days in Australia last month and met tourism and aviation representatives, Gold
Coast Mayor Tom Tate, Queensland Premier Campbell Newman and Tourism Minister Jann Stuckey
before meeting Trade Minister Andrew Robb in Canberra.

IN

i6651 : Hotels (except Casino)/Motels | i66 : Hotels/Restaurants | i665 : Lodgings | ilea :
Leisure/Arts/Hospitality | itourm : Tourism

Page160of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS
RE

PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | china : China | dalian : Dalian | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | liaon : Liaoning
News Ltd.
Document CAIRPO0020140714ea7c0002l

Page161of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.