The mining sector and the state of key international economies will be the key...

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
The mining sector and the state of key international economies will be the key...

478 words
23 June 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
First
2
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

The mining sector and the state of key international economies will be the key issues facing
investors and policy makers this week.

The data cupboard is largely bare with very few pieces of data on offer.

On Thursday, the bureau will release the job vacancies data for the three months to May .

With everyone looking for signs that the jobs market is on the turn, the vacancies data could give
those hopeful about the economy some reason to smile.

Also out on Thursday will be the bureau’s financial accounts data for the March quarter .
The accounts enable the calculation of household wealth and the holdings of shares and bonds by
foreign investors.

Given the fall in real wages over the past six months, any sign that household wealth is lifting will be
taken as a positive by retailers.
Of more interest to the wider economy will be the Bureau of Resources and Energy Economics’ June
quarterly report .
In its March update, the bureau tipped the nation would export a record $76.8 billion worth of iron
ore through 2013-14. At the time it said iron ore prices were likely to average $110 a tonne FOB
through the calendar year.
Since then, the iron ore price has fallen sharply and now sits around the $90 a tonne mark.
The bureau is likely to revise down its forecasts for the iron ore price. It is also expected to revise
down price forecasts for coal, which has had an even bigger price collapse in recent months.

Overseas there is plenty of information to digest.
The most important will be today when the latest “flash” reading on the health of the Chinese
manufacturing sector will be released by HSBC.

Tonight attention will turn to the US and the release of May data on existing home sales .

Tomorrow night will be busy with US home prices for April , the consumer confidence read for June
and new home sales data for May due for release.

On Wednesday night, the revised GDP figures for the March quarter will be made public. They are
expected to confirm that the US economy contracted at an annualised rate of 1.6 per cent. That
would be because of the harsh winter in much of the US. Also out on Wednesday night will be
business investment figures covering durable goods orders .

Page114of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.On Thursday, personal income and spending figures for May are due to be released with a small lift
of 0.4 per cent expected.

The week will close off with consumer sentiment data .

In Australia, this is the last week of the current Senate. Much of the debate will be on the
reintroduction of indexation of fuel excise with little clarity if the Government has the numbers to
make it law.

RE
PUB
AN

waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document TWAU000020140622ea6n0003y

Page115of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.