AROUND THE BLOCK

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

CommercialProperty
AROUND THE BLOCK

972 words
21 February 2014
The Courier-Mail
COUMAI
CourierMail
68
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

INDUSTRY LEADERS DISCUSS THE STATE OF THE COMMERCIAL PROPERTY MARKET IN
BRISBANE WHERE IS THE QUEENSLAND PROPERTY MARKET IN THE CYCLE?

DON O’RORKE Executive chairman — Consolidated Properties BRISBANE is definitely on the rise,
having lagged Melbourne and Sydney. ANTHONY OTT Head of agency — Savills ON a macro level
the property market is moving slowly into the upswing phase driven by improved consumer and
business confidence, a low interest rate environment, solid net migration and improving global
economic conditions. All sectors are experiencing strong investor demand from both domestic and
offshore capital.

DAN WHITE Director — Ray White Grou WE are seeing increasing competition for property across
the sectors. Properties that were marketed unsuccessfully in the past are now receiving interest from
multiple purchasers. History would suggest that this is not surprising given the very strong market
growth first in New Zealand, and then Sydney.

JONATHAN O’BRIEN Managing director, Brisbane — CBRE THE market has passed the bottom and
is on a slow path to a sustainable recovery across most sectors of the property market. This is due to
a number of factors that have come into force — the recovery of the economy, through renewed
interest in the residential housing sector, and historically low interest rates.

WHAT IS THE STRONGEST SECTOR OF THE MARKET?
DON O’RORKE THE strongest sector across the board is residential, but investor demand for well
leased commercial, retail and industrial property is very strong.

ANTHONY OTT TENANT demand across the office, retail and industrial sectors remains below
historical levels however all markets are attracting exceptional investment demand particularly for
modern, well leased assets. The industrial market has been quicker to move off the bottom.

DAN WHITE IT continues to be a sellers market for strongly leased assets. Our auction clearance
rates in this sector have never been stronger, and it’s not uncommon to receive offers during auction
campaigns that are in-line with vendors’ hopes only to achieve a better results on auction day.

JONATHAN O’BRIEN INVESTMENT grade stock properties in the $75 million to $150 million range
are heavily sought by institutional grade investors and overseas funds. Also, residential development
sites within 5km of the CBD are in demand from developers.

WHAT IS THE WEAKEST SECTOR OF THE MARKET?

DON O’RORKE THE CBD office leasing market is the most challenging sector at the moment.
However, there is evidence of opportunistic corporate tenants doing deals that are literally “once in a
lifetime”, setting their occupancy costs for the next decade at all time lows.

Page2of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.ANTHONY OTT THE office leasing market is the most challenging of all the sectors with subdued
tenant demand and rising vacancy levels. This is forcing owners to reduce face rents and increase
incentive levels. The biggest impact has been across secondary assets where owners have also had
to commit to significant capital expenditure to remain competitive.
DAN WHITE SENTIMENT in the CBD commercial office market is terrible. The overhang of newly
fitted-out office space available for sublease will need to clear before it improves. However, we are
seeing better activity in the city fringe, achieving some particularly good results in markets such as
Toowong and the Valley.
JONATHAN O’BRIEN COMMERCIAL leasing is experiencing very soft tenant demand, high vacancy
with high incentives. This will improve once white collar employment picks up.

CBRE anticipates this will start to occur towards the end of this year. In the meantime smart landlords
are making capital improvements to retain tenants.

WHO IS BUYING AND WHY?

DON O’RORKE PRIVATES, offshore sovereign funds and institutional investors are buying
commercial, retail and industrial properties across all price points. Private investors, self managed
super funds are buying investor-style residential apartments and townhouses, enjoying yields of 5 per
cent to 6 per cent.

ANTHONY OTT ACROSS all sectors there is an enormous appetite from both domestic and offshore
investors. This has been driven by the large flow of funds into the superannuation industry, a low
interest rate environment, the yield/debt spread in Australia compared to other global markets.

DAN WHITE INTEREST from interstate and overseas buyers has been critical in creating momentum.
All our campaigns ensure we heavily canvass the Asian markets through our Beijing and Hong Kong
offices. Brisbane being considered as a strong option for these investors JONATHAN O’BRIEN
LARGE institutions, both interstate and overseas, are looking at Brisbane for long-term growth and
stability. Interstate and overseas residential developers in the high-rise and multi-unit sector are
getting in on the action from as well.

WHAT IS THE THREE-YEAR OUTLOOK?

DON O’RORKE DEMAND for apartments should remain strong for 2014-2015 and relative affordability
will drive interstate migration. This market will slow if cost escalation pushes the boundary of
affordability in terms of price and rents. It will also slow if vacancy levels blow out because of
oversupply. Demand for nondiscretionary retail will remain strong.

ANTHONY OTT WE anticipate all market sectors to continue to move through the upswing phase due
to improving consumer and business confidence. As company profit margins improve, we expect
increased business investment which has a flow on effect in regards to space demand across all
sectors.

DAN WHITE WE are always comfortable in recommending the long term prospects of Queensland.
Our 110- year history has been one of overall growth, with the usual periods of uncertainty and decline
being overcome by broader economic and population growth. The increasingly important geographic
connection with Asia only enhances this view.

JONATHAN O’BRIEN THE investment market will remain strong with the outlook for Queensland
being a preferred destination for investors across all sectors of the market. As the economy
strengthens it will encourage development and capital injection in the coming years. Once the mining
sector recovers demand for commercialproperty will again strengthen.

IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

i8500021 : Office Real Estate | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icireal : Commercial/Industrial Real
Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ireest : Real Estate
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | queensl : Queensland | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South Wales
News Ltd.
Document COUMAI0020140220ea2l0005l

Page3of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.