Australia Capital Recycling Roundtable: Selling the old to build the new

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

Australia Capital Recycling Roundtable: Selling the old to build the new

Richard Morrow
5,599 words
23 September 2014
GlobalCapital
EURMCM
English
© Copyright 2014 Euromoney Institutional Investor plc.

Capital recycling has been around in Australia since the 1980s and 1990s. However, state governments
have found their balance sheets stretched in recent years and particularly following the global financial
crisis, even as Australia’s population continues to surge. According to demographic projections the
country will double its population to around 50m by 2050. The country needs to invest heavily in new
infrastructure to achieve this, and to help pay for it state governments are looking to sell existing
infrastructure to private investors. It’s a controversial plan. Asiamoney speaks with a set of experts to
discuss how the financial markets can best support this recycling of state assets.

Panellists:

TD

Arnon Musiker, senior credit officer, corporate and infrastructure finance, Moody’s
Geoff Meulman, group general manager for infrastructure, finance &

investments, John Holland, and incoming chief financial officer,

Leighton PPP Co.
Joanna Wakefield, group treasurer, Asciano Group

Paul Roe, director of financing and funding policy, Infrastructure Australia

James Dynon, head of project financing, Australia, HSBC

James Cameron, head of project and export finance, Asia Pacific, HSBC

Andrew Cortese, partner, Grimshaw

Andrew Faber, investment director, infrastructure, Hastings Funds Management

Moderator: Richard Morrow, editor, Asiamoney

Asiamoney (AM): What are the estimated infrastructure needs in Australia in the coming years?

Paul Roe, Infrastructure Australia: IA’s Infrastructure Priority List contains around A$82bn-worth
($76.58bn) of largely unfunded projects. But there’s a much larger number of projects required by all the
state infrastructure plans around the country.

We’re undertaking an audit of the nation’s infrastructure around a 15 year infrastructure plan. We’re
working cooperatively with the state governments on that infrastructure planning process, which will be
coming out next year at some stage

We’ve observed that a large number of projects are submitted to Infrastructure Australia without a clear
funding pathway. Governments are quite constrained, particularly state governments in terms of their
credit ratings at the moment.

That’s where alternative funding sources, like capital recycling, comes into play. State governments have
a legacy issue of a large number of economic infrastructure assets that are regulated on their balance

Page202of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.sheets. And they largely have sat there because of a lack of a political will to sell those assets in the
past.

To its credit, the New South Wales’s [recycling] initiative has been a good example for other state
governments to utilise the net proceeds from those existing economic infrastructure assets and recycle
them to fund new infrastructure.

The important thing to keep in mind is that these net proceeds are over and above the retention value of
the assets on government balance sheets. These assets are better utilised by private sector owners in
terms of their commercial possibilities than being kept in government held hands.

However, the general community has generally been comforted knowing the government is holding these
assets. Plus there have been strong lobby groups formed of employees of these existing firms, and the
potential losers from reform can often be more vocal than the likely beneficiaries.

AM: Hastings has been involved in buying assets. Andrew, has privatising them helped improve their
efficiency?

Andrew Faber, Hastings: I won't give you specifics, but from the perspective of our investors, who are
looking for stable returns over their long-term investment horizon, opportunities to improve efficiency
through active asset management strategies are always attractive and these assets are very well suited
to that. That’s one reason we’re seeing demand.

Essential infrastructure assets are critical to the economies and communities of the regions they serve.
In particular I think the New South Wales government has done a very good job of identifying assets to
sell and focusing on the community engagement piece. For example, it was incredibly important for us to
see that a large part of the proceeds of our bid for the Port of Newcastle be reinvested in the
revitalisation of the Newcastle CBD (central business district) – this has a positive impact on the local
perception of the privatisation process.

In terms of efficiency gains, I think we are certainly seeing some opportunities to add some efficiency.
For example, in our airports portfolio, undertaking capital expenditure works programmes to grow
capacity.
AM: Joanna, would Asciano when it comes to these assets? Would the company look to invest in at
some point?

Joanna Wakefield, Asciano: We are far more of an operator, typically we own running stock, or cranes on
ports etcetera. But we own some assets where we can get a good in-house return and as an operator,
we would definitely look at assets where we could assist the return on the infrastructure. We did look at
Newcastle Ports’ privatisation as a consortium, and we have looked at other things in consortia.

AM: What causes you to decide to participate in a consortium?

Wakefield, Asciano: Where as an operator we can add benefit and get a good return. For example,
Esperance is another one that we’re the preferred bidder at the moment. That’s bringing us into a new
market with iron ore, which is somewhere where we have a capability and can expand.

AM: What is a good return?

Wakefield, Asciano: I think it’s been very public. We have a ROCE (return on capital employed) is to
exceed our WACC (weighted average cost of capital) by 2016 to 2017.
Faber, Hastings: One of the things the New South Wales government has done in transactions such as
the Port of Newcastle, is that various aspects of the transaction have been designed appeal to financial
investors more than strategic investors. That’s why you’re seeing capital come in from the likes of
Canadian pension funds and other offshore investors who are seeking low risk stable returns over a long
term investment horizon. That’s where you see the transaction multiples arise from those transactions.
It’s stripping out the risks that really appeal to those investors.
James Dynon, HSBC: Effectively structuring transactions to appeal to a particular investor base is
something the New South Wales government has very well in recent times. They’ve made some very
practical changes to the transaction structures to purposefully attract efficiently priced and longer term
capital from Australia and also offshore.

AM: Has that offshore capital come from both financial investors and strategic investors?

Dynon, HSBC: We’ve seen some activity from strategic investors, however it has mostly come from
financial investors. It comes back to the cost of capital of a financial investor versus a strategic. In

Page203of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.addition in some cases the potential lack of an operating contract may restrict a strategic’s ability to really
bid hard for an asset.
Geoff Meulman, John Holland: As a construction company we’re interested in the privatisation of
existing assets as a form of government funding to fuel a development pipeline of new assets. We would
also be supportive of seeing more of the unsolicited type of projects that a number of state governments
have published guidelines for to encourage private sector participation.

There’s been a few examples of those, and Transurban has certainly got up to unsolicited approaches
and then competed out the construction contract on each. We’re similarly involved in a rail project in
Victoria where there is competition within the project, notwithstanding we’re in a unique position to be
able to deliver that project. We’re certainly keen to work up more projects like that.

AM: Arnon, will there be many more infrastructure assets to be privatised that require ratings?

Arnon Musiker, Moody’s: Absolutely. Based on the New South Wales government’s current model for the
network businesses for instance, I’ve seen estimated disposable proceeds or acquisition prices of
A$30bn to A$40bn.

Now if that order of magnitude is correct, and if a bidder seeks to raise 60% of that amount via debt, then
that’s A$18bn to A$24bn of debt, which is a large amount of money to raise for one sector in Australia’s
banking market. The capital markets would be a natural place to at least place some of that debt there,
particularly because they offer longer term funding.

AM: James, would the Australian bank market struggle to finance such asset sales?

Dynon, HSBC: The Australian infrastructure market has always been a very large market. Over the last
couple of years we’ve seen volumes in the A$20bn to A$40bn dollar range each year. Recently we’ve
had two large LNG (liquefied natural gas) projects hit the market that required A$20bn dollars of funding,
and they were both financed very easily.

Diversification funding however is very important for these assets, especially given that the government
is keen to maximise the value of the sale. To obtain competitive funding you’ll need to access the bank
market, you’ll need to access the US markets, the private markets, the public markets, and potentially
some of the Asian markets as well.

AM: Is there a lot of interest from the Asian market when it comes to infrastructure opportunities here?

James Cameron, HSBC: Absolutely. Within the Asian and global context, Australia is a very attractive
market, for a couple of reasons. One, it has a very consistent delivery of transactions in the pipeline,
which is attractive to both equity and debt. And two, this pipeline is very visible.

It’s exactly what Paul said about Infrastructure Australia going through the asset list and clearly putting
that out to the universe of bidders. That visibility is tremendously helpful to institutions, both on the
equity, be they financial sponsors or strategics, or on the debt side of the financial market.
Although transactions are very competitive, procurement processes in Australia are relatively consistent
in terms of timeline and risk allocation. You know that a processes will complete within 12-18 months for
a Greenfield asset and if you’re on the finance side the project duration is probably more like nine
months. At the end of this process, there is a high degree of certainty around an outcome without large,
unallocated risks such as land acquisition or material environmental approvals. Combined with the
infrastructure requirements, these are key reasons why Australia is the second biggest project finance
market in the world, year to date, and looking ahead has the most consistent pipeline in Asia Pacific.

Musiker, Moody’s: Another factor we’re seeing attracting offshore investors is the consistent and stable
nature of the Australian macroeconomic environment, where you’re seeing consistent economic growth
and triple ‘A’ rated government ratings with low government debt that provides it with financial flexibility to
respond to macro-economic downside pressures if necessary.

This compares to Europe in particular, where you’ve got rated toll roads in countries like France and Italy
that have seen traffic declines in the high single digit percentage range over a sustained number of
periods. In contrast, the stable macro-economic environment in Australia makes the infrastructure sector
here far more appealing.

AM: What advice would you give to other governments regarding what New South Wales has done?

Faber, Hastings: Clarity of timetable. Clarity of priority in terms of just what the government is trying to
achieve. What the New South Wales government did was to very early in the recent processes was to

Page204of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.very clearly and consistently establish what their priorities were in structuring a transaction. For our
investors who are deciding which processes to prioritise, that’s a very positive story to hear early on,
particularly when participants in these bidding processes are preparing earlier and earlier for these
transactions.

It’s all about providing as much certainty about the priorities in terms of which assets are being
privatised, the timetable, structure, and the priorities of government in those transaction processes.

AM: How receptive are the governments to offering clarity of their privatisation plans? Roe, Infrastructure
Australia: In the last set of Commonwealth and state budget papers, and speeches, capital recycling was
front and centre of almost every state government. I should mention that the Commonwealth
government’s asset recycling initiative is a good example of a strategic intervention to encourage the
states to undertake the reform in this area.

The Commonwealth would traditionally provide a straight grant funding, but with the asset recycling
initiative it’s established a A$5bn fund that creates an incentive for the state governments to recycle their
capital. And that funding is directed towards Greenfield infrastructures.

The Commonwealth government is considering each project on a case by case basis. Infrastructure
Australia will look at the projects that the funding goes towards, to assess the projects to ensure that
they’re delivering economic value for the nation.

AM: Are there particular areas where you’ve had a great deal of private sector interest?

Roe, Infrastructure Australia: The starting point is whether the economic regulatory arrangements are
suitable for sale. That gives investors the confidence to be able to price the assets, and invest in the
assets going forward.
For energy assets the regulatory arrangements are well and truly in place. For port assets too. In terms
of water assets it varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but there’s certainly good international examples
of well-regulated water assets, and there’s no reason why regulatory form can't improve further in that
sector.

Faber, Hastings: Regulatory clarity is incredibly important. It’s one of the top three issues that we and our
investors focus on, because there are a number of examples of investors losing money because of a
change in regulatory environment, and infrastructure assets are very sensitive to that.

AM: Have many of the assets recycled to date led to bond issues?

Musiker, Moody’s: The pattern seems to be that when assets are privatised they tend to get financed in
the bank project finance market first under more restrictive covenant packages. Then as they establish
an operating track record over time – and most of these assets also operate under some sort of
regulatory framework – lenders become more comfortable with the risks and we see them migrate over
to corporate finance-type packages with looser covenants, and then they start accessing the bond
markets.

There was a slew of ‘Baa2’ bond issues last year, which I’d say were more representative of corporate
finance style covenant packages. I can think of some [issuers, such as] Perth Airport, Asciano, and
Brisbane Airport.

Cameron, HSBC: From a Greenfield perspective, with the exception of a small number of situations in
Europe, market liquidity means bank debt is still the most efficient [financing] product globally. It doesn’t
have negative carry impacts associated with bonds, and the majority of bond investors still have
challenges getting comfortable with construction risk.

However, when infrastructure assets reach an operational stage you have a much more stable cash flow
and a lower risk profile. Then you have the opportunity to look at ratings and different sources of finance
and it really becomes an optimisation game.
For example, last year we refinanced the Aquasure transaction in Victoria, which was originally financed
by bank debt through construction. However once the project reached the operational phase, it was
refinanced in both the US dollar and Aussie dollar domestic bond market, as well as the bank market.

Faber, Hastings: One of the very positive spin offs of the capital recycling programme is that as
privatisations occur you’ll have more infrastructure, economic infrastructure owners in private hands,
looking for private financing sources. And their natural demand is for long tenor debt.

Page205of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.So, you’ll see demand for bonds with increasing tenor as you last saw with the airports, which were
privatised in the late nineties and early 2000s. You’ll see that occurring in more and more sectors in
Australia, and there’ll be more depth to that market. That may well address the broader lack of
development in the corporate bond market in Australia, which will in turn improve pricing for Greenfield
infrastructure financing.

Meulman, John Holland: There’s quite a few interesting spinoffs there for Greenfield because it’s a very
liquid project finance market here. That tends to get you through most construction periods plus the
couple of years you need to get to that stable operating environment, where you can re-finance say with
the bank debt market or in some cases into a bond. However, we still haven’t seen a lot of that in PPP
type projects, or it tends to be a smaller component of the refinancing.

In terms of Greenfield it’s always important to proponents that they work through a complicated
development phase with institutions that they know well. Having a disparate bond investor group during
delivery you don’t know how sophisticated they are in assessing and managing construction risk, which
can throw up challenges in the delivery phase of the project.
Use of bonds from financial close to seek longer tenor, is often seen as a desirable evolution. However,
we have a liquid equity market that is well versed in analysing refinancing risk two years post completion
to the end of the concession, so to lock into a longer tenor bond then equity investors are potentially
missing out on the refinancing gain from the de-risking of a project past completion.

AM: Is there any way you can structure a deal to help?

Cameron, HSBC: We have seen more examples of banks bearing the construction risk but agreeing on
day one to flip the transaction into the capital markets on reaching completion in markets like Europe,
where there was more dislocation in terms of the long term funding market. However, in Australia, the
difficulty is that the majority of projects are bid out on a competitive basis, so you need to look at the
most efficient financing package from a cost perspective and historically you’ve always had strong and
price effective liquidity in the bank market.
Although sponsors may say they want to have 30 year money locked in up upfront on a PPP transaction,
when they compared their IRR (internal rates of return) on a 30 year financing compared to taking seven
year bank debt funding upfront, the difference in the cost of debt just wouldn’t be worth it.

However, one thing we have seen is some European and North American institutions who have been
investors in the infrastructure asset class in bond format becoming much more flexible in the way that
they’re looking at transactions. Institutions are open to consider loan formats without fixed rates and
some are quite happy to take construction risk. They’ve effectively set up project finance teams within
their own institution to invest in the asset class upfront.

Meulman, John Holland: That’s a very important point. What we need to see is a lot more of that skill
base locating at the end investor. To facilitate that we need to see enough deal flow for those investors to
want to hire those people to analyse the construction risk. From a long term perspective to have a pool of
competitive bond investors plus project finance banks is going to bring down the overall cost of finance in
construction and in operation.

Musiker, Moody’s: Speaking purely from a rating perspective the construction risk of Greenfield projects
need not be the main inhibitor to a strong rating. It’s more down to the ramp-up risk. Greenfield assets
like toll roads are reliant on a certain level of traffic projections being achieved in order to service their
debt, and the failure to achieve such projections has been the major cause of failure as opposed to
construction risk.

AM: Joanna, do you value tenor as opposed to the simplicity of bank financing?

Wakefield, Asciano: Absolutely, that’s why we’ve been going to the bond markets and doing sort of tenor
bonds. If you look at our average, I think we’ve got a weighted average debt maturity of 4.9 years and
we are looking to take that out longer still.

You’ve got to have a mix of course. You want it to be low cost and nimble, which bank debt can be
whereas a bunch of disparate bondholders can’t. And from a bondholder’s perspective I would say they
want two years of consistent revenues before they will buy bonds in new infrastructure.

AM: Andrew, Grimshaw has worked across the world on all these projects. What’s your take on the
planning and funding of them?
Andrew Cortese, Grimshaw: I’d best caution that I’m an architect and planner and not a banker, however
the infrastructure projects we are involved in are most often initiated from finance initiatives.

Page206of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The population growth for Australia is predicted to increase by 50%-100% by 2050 and the imperative of
infrastructure development is to support GDP growth sufficiently to keep track with developed and
emerging economies [in the South Asia Pacific region]. Through planning, we can incentivise
infrastructure investment ahead of population growth in a manner that will support and sustain it.

Good transport planning starts with strategic integrated transport and land use plans. That requires
having a clear understanding of the goals you want to achieve in terms of the city’s future shape, and
how to ensure the efficient movement of people and freight both within and between cities through
transport corridors. Sydney’s new North West Rail is a good example of servicing population growth and
corridor intensification. Its completion, though relies on its connection through to the CBD.

It’s important during the development of projects to create strategies that effectively combine this new
transport infrastructure with high quality services and amenities. That will allow the local economy to
grow with the population in a sustainable, connected and affordable manner.

New South Wales is proposing the next phase of Sydney Rapid Transit in combination with a major
urban renewal project from the south of CBD-Central to Everleigh. There’s an opportunity to configure
ways to allow for a large array of activities in this area for the coming years, including commercial and
residential use.

The next phase of Sydney Rapid Transit will also be a much larger investment than North West Rail. So
how does New South Wales fund that solution and ensure the full benefit, to provide the necessary
connectivity to support productivity and housing affordability? Paul and I talked earlier about the
possibility of land value capture and good land use planning as a potential funding source for Greenfield
infrastructure. It’s been very much underutilised in the Australian context.
The Hong Kong Metro was funded to a certain degree by land value capture. And Cross Rail in London
is a good case study of significant funding from the commercial sector.

AM: What percentage can such schemes raise against the cost of a project?

Cortese, Grimshaw: In the Cross Rail case I think they raised a third of the total capital cost from
alternative funding outsource techniques and so they got the private sector to develop the stations and
fund the station development that levy on residents in London. So it can be a very material source of
funding for infrastructure. Studies demonstrate the benefit to the price of land around key transport
corridors.

Cameron, HSBC: We have also seen similar mechanisms in the region, especially around rail and road
transport projects where the right to develop a transport infrastructure project also provides the land
development rights either at a station or in the project corridor. That gives you a direct mechanism for
cross subsidy, regardless of the structure of the underlying project revenue (annuity payments or user
charges).

Musiker, Moody’s: From a credit rating perspective a traditional infrastructure asset with a strong market
position or monopoly style attributes has very different revenue streams to an allied commercial
property development. If you take an airport, for example, people needing to fly to the city have to use
the airport whereas the commercial property around it will compete with other nodes and potentially be
subject to the same sort of cyclicality as those other nodes.
From a credit perspective commercial property that competes with other property nodes is more
volatile than an airport, and thus less able to support a higher level of leverage.

AM: So incorporating both revenue streams into one borrower makes them less appealing?

Musiker, Moody’s: It would impact the thresholds for the rating level. Typically a rating range may be
expressed in terms of the credit metrics which an issuer needs to achieve in order to fit into that band. So
a hypothetical issuer would with commercial property have a higher bar than one without it because its
revenue streams are more volatile.

Meulman, John Holland: I think government have become much more sophisticated in determining how
the will maximise the return. They’re asking consortia to master plan projects to allow for the best
possible commercial development, by the state or consortia. They are looking to optimise the
commercial development and then take that on when the project might be finished or a particular phase
of delivery gets completed.

There’s been quite a significant level of sophistication on the state side to get across those sort of issues
and make sure that when they want to expand a project down the track the investors in the original
project have a chance to take advantage of that expansion and relationship. The state’s ability to best

Page207of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.ensure value for money in that expansion process links in some ways back to that unsolicited proposal
approach. I think that’s where a lot of value is going to be unlocked in future bids.

AM: To conclude, how extensive do you think demand for the new Greenfield projects will be?

Roe, Infrastructure Australia: Demand for this infrastructure will be very strong going forward. The sheer
population dynamics suggest that. The ABS (Australian Bureau of Statistics) is projecting Australia's
population to exceed 30m by 2031. It's important to improve the way we undertake infrastructure
planning to ensure that the infrastructure is utilised efficiently and decision-making is being made
appropriately.

Particularly in transport infrastructure, there's also more scope to take advantage of improvements in
technology to introduce better price signals.

Meulman, John Holland: We need more bond investors to be able to assess all of the risks, including
construction risk. We obviously rely heavily on project finance banks who are sophisticated at analysing
those risks and understand our organisation and approach methods. I don't see that diminishing, but to
increase the overall pool of funding the Australian bond market has to develop at some point. I think we
will see that happen indirectly when there is more privatisation momentum.

Musiker, Moody’s: A related point to touch upon is that in Europe the EIB (European Investment Bank)
has launched their Europe 2020 Project Bond Initiative in which they provide subordinated debt
instruments into projects which act as a first loss piece for core risks. Through this credit enhancement
they've been able to attract greater amounts of private sector funding into projects than would otherwise
have been the case. I think the leverage in these projects is that one euro of EIB subordinated funding
leverages about 17 euros of senior debt financing.

Something like that here could mitigate core risks which the private sector isn't otherwise prepared to
accept and help catalyse private funding into new projects.

AM: Has that idea been floated with the central government?

Musiker, Moody’s: I think it was mentioned in the Productivity Commission Report and Infrastructure
Australia has also been looking quite closely at that.

Roe, Infrastructure Australia: Yes. The European bond initiative is included in our Infrastructure Debt
Report. And we recently had a discussion with a representative of the EIB, which Moody's was involved
in.

It wasn't taken up in the Productivity Commission recommendations, however. I think there are some
issues for the government to work through in terms of having the institutional arrangements in place to
understand the risks of the projects they would writing the subordinated debt for. But I think it’s worth
exploring further and will help facilitate the involvement of bonds in Greenfield financing.

Cameron, HSBC: There’s a key difference between what's happening in the European market and here.
In Europe you have a revenue stream for projects in euros and an investor base that looks to match
long-term assets and liabilities in euros. So you can offer an EIB linked product with a 30 year maturity in
the market. At the moment you don't really have liquidity at that tenor here in the local currency Aussie
dollar market. You're seeing [bonds of] seven years more consistently and can maybe stretch to 10. But
to go beyond that you've really got to get offshore and then manage the currency risk. That’s a more
expensive process now with banks.
AM: Wouldn't it be logical for the super funds to get involved through equity or through debt? They're by
nature long-term investors.

Cameron, HSBC: It's a good question. I think there has maybe been more of a focus on the shorter tenor
in the super fund space. Where we've seen Australian super funds in infrastructure financing, it's been
more in the five/seven-year area alongside the bank market. Plus they may have been incentivised
through tax regimes and other reasons to go into equities rather than long-term debt.

AM: Joanna, what new project plans excites Asciano the most?

Wakefield, Asciano: One of the projects on the list we're quite interested in is the inland freight rail. At the
moment we find it very hard to compare with road because our trains are backed up behind passenger
trains and they get right of way, so that makes it difficult for us to compete when it comes to that
Melbourne through to Brisbane freight route.

Page208of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.However, we know that's probably not very sexy politically so it's likely to be pushed down the agenda.
What we’re told is that the government wants to get trucks off roads, even though everything they do
seems to suggest otherwise.

AM: Andrew, what development would you like to see in terms of the information you are given for new
projects?

Cortese, Grimshaw: The brief of those studies needs to be more expansive. Specific infrastructure
studies should be associated with [concurrent] regional planning studies that support investment options.
That allows us to see and take advantage of all the available connectivities within the studies, which
allows us to get a more ‘joined-up’ analysis.

We recently delivered a study for London as a ‘Hub City’ that integrated its five airports and rail
infrastructure solutions to improve accessibility and economic performance. And we discovered it was
more beneficial if the city improves the links between the airports than just building a new one [airport]. I
think a similar study for Sydney’s second airport with the high speed rail should be linked to plan for
better connectivity and population growth to the agricultural, tourism and commercial centres on the
east coast, not just [focus on] city-to-city connectivity.

AM: Andrew, where do you see the greatest opportunity?
Faber, Hastings: We're more focused on the pipeline of brownfield and mature transactions coming up
for sale than Greenfield transactions. Providing clarity and consistency of the pipeline and objectives,
and an awareness of risk allocation issues that matter to private sector equity participants, should
enable states to generate the most interest in their assets.

I keep complimenting the New South Wales government processes because they've been executed well,
and the reason is they have deliberately structured transactions that have been attractive to the likes of
Hastings and our investors.

AM: James, are there further elements that could be developed to financially support

recycling existing assets to Greenfield ones?

Dynon, HSBC: The bank debt market is very liquid and it's been so for many years. However, given the
future pipeline, the most important thing is trying to recycle that Greenfield money into the bond markets
and into the Aussie bond market, particularly once construction is complete.

It’s important that happens, especially given that we're seeing additional regulations building about longer
bank financing. With Basel III emerging, it becomes even more important for borrowers to diversify
funding. There's obviously a strong pool of domestic bank liquidity but there's a huge amount of [loan]
volume that also comes from offshore. If we have another market dislocation or disruption, there’s a
question over how much of those funds would continue to stay in Australia or retreat back to their home
country. So, diversification of funding is key.

Cameron, HSBC: I absolutely agree. It's been a focus of ours as an institution. What you're seeing in
Australia is being mirrored around the world.

There is maybe A$30bn to A$40bn of brownfield financing needs next year, on top of what's consistently
a A$30bn to A$40bn Greenfield market; that's a lot of capital. It's going require an interesting mixture of
capital to support it.

You can talk about all sorts of artificial incentives to develop capital markets but the biggest incentive for
investors is a pipeline. It's an opportunity. That’s going to be the biggest driver of capital markets
development here.

CO
IN
NS

RE

ascian : Asciano Ltd.
itsp : Transportation/Logistics
gpol : Domestic Politics | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | gcat : Political/General News | gpir :
Politics/International Relations | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | sydney : Sydney | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South Wales | queensl : Queensland

PUB Euromoney Trading Limited
AN

Document EURMCM0020150119ea9n004ma

Page209of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Page210of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.