Waiting for an Aussie miracle

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Waiting for an Aussie miracle

Matthew Smith
748 words
23 September 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
18
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Wine Since 2010, Australian Vintage has been wearing the pain of the high dollar.

It has been a tough four years for Neil McGuigan, chief executive of Australian Vintage. The high
Australian dollar is eating into the company's export margins, making the already challenging job of
running an unpredictable agriculture business even harder.

Profits from wine sales overseas are barely enough to keep the lights on back at its southern NSW
Buronga Hill winery and processing plant.

But McGuigan has persisted, and by keeping Australian Vintage wines on the shelves and in front of
wine drinkers in Britain, Canada and in the burgeoning Asian wine market, he has positioned the
business to benefit from even the slightest movements of the currency in its favour.

"All we need now is a little bit of luck," McGuigan says.

Australian Vintage, maker of brands including McGuigan Wines, Nepenthe, Passion Pop and Tempus
Two, has the sixth-largest brand in Britain by volume of wine sold and has the largest brand in
Ireland. In August the company quietly announced it had signed a China-wide distribution agreement
with COFCO Wine & Spirits, part of state-owned COFCO, China's largest food processor and
manufacturer.

Since 2010, when the Australian dollar reached parity with the US dollar, McGuigan and the Australian
Vintage board have been gritting their teeth and wearing the pain to avoid forfeiting the foothold the
business has established in overseas markets over the years.

"Wherever the exchange rate has moved against us it has hurt, but you don't want to walk away from
the hard work you've put into building those brands . . . When the [British] pound moved below 69 pence
[relative to the Aussie in March last year] that was very painful. It's been tough," he says.

Australian Vintage is leveraged to the movements of the currency as is any other Australian listed
company. When the dollar moves in a favourable way it has a material impact on profitability.

The relatively lower Australian dollar in the last financial year, when compared with previous years,
contributed to the 97 per cent increase in contribution that British branded and bottled sales made to
the group.
The company's overall net profit increased by 49 per cent to $10.5 million in 2013-14 thanks to more
favourable foreign exchange and growth in sales of branded wines over the less-profitable bulk wine
business.
But the Australian wine industry has felt a lot of pain over the past few years. There is still a way to go
before Australian Vintage's shareholders can expect to reap the rewards of more favourable trading
conditions, should the dollar continue to follow its recent trajectory.

Page58of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.In addition, the damage done by the oversupply of Australian grapes a decade ago still hangs over the
heads of Australian winemakers.

Australian Vintage, formerly named McGuigan Simeon, has transformed itself over the years from a
bulk supplier of wines to now making most of its wine for its higher-margin branded products. But
McGuigan has tried unsuccessfully in recent years to secure a distribution agreement for branded
wines in the United States, which he says will be essential to selling into the North American market.

Australian Vintage had an agreement with US-based E&J Gallo to supply bulk wines until 2011, but the
company has never been able to make a branded wine distribution there.
McGuigan believes the noise around the proposed private equity buyout of rival listed wine
companyTreasury Wine Estates (TWE) is not helping his efforts to position Australian Vintage's
branded wines in the US. "Every conversation you have is about what's happening with TWE – what's
going to happen with the ownership and what will happen to some of those brands," he says. "They're
less interested in talking to us about our wine . . . [The buyout] needs to be resolved quickly and we
need to get back to the knitting and talk about how good Australian wine is."
Under a KKR & Co-led buyout it has been speculated in the media that TWE's Penfolds brand could
be spun out and floated separately in the US.

After years of Australian winemakers either going bust or being bought out by larger companies,
Australian Vintage is one of three remaining ASX-listed winemakers, next to Treasury Wine Estates
and the much smaller Brand New Vintage.

Key points

NS

RE
PUB
AN

gfod : Food/Drink | gwine : Wine | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | gwbs :
Wine/Beer/Spirits
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140922ea9n0002n

Page59of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.