Churches flip: Uniting we stand, divided we sell Capital Gain

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business - Commercial Property
Churches flip: Uniting we stand, divided we sell Capital Gain

Marc Pallisco
1,068 words
22 November 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
12
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Metro Property Development - headed by Devine Limited founder David Devine and recent BRW Rich
List entrant Luke Hartman, are flipping the third of six Melbourne sites they bought from the Uniting
Church in a fire sale 11 months ago.

The 1900-square-metre block in tree-lined Cromwell Road, South Yarra, is expected to sell for more
than $8 million and make way for apartments. Metro has not obtained a permit, but instead a planning
scheme for a four-level complex.

Metro paid $25 million for six of 10 Melbourne sites the debt-laden United Church offered to recover
debts incurred from the collapse of Mernda's Acacia College. In all, the church sought more than $50
million selling parts of its national portfolio.

The Queensland-based Metro only settled on the church sites five months ago. Earlier this month Metro
offloaded one of these properties at 1-5 Westley Avenue, Ivanhoe, for $9.2 million - almost twice the
price it attributed to the block when it valued the portfolio.
Earlier, it sold a former church site in Balwyn for $13 million, again nearly doubling its outlay.
In Brisbane, Metro recently sold a former TAFE college site to a Hong Kong group for $46 million
after paying the state government $22 million for it last year.
Biggin & Scott Land's Andrew Egan and Frank Nagle are selling the South Yarra site with Melbourne
Acquisition's Dominic Gibson and Steven Messina.
Industrial sale

A local investor has paid $7 million for a massive industrial asset with subdivision potential opposite the
Geelong Racecourse and Showgrounds.
The Breakwater site at 36-40 Fellmongers Road includes a 20,800 square metre office warehouse
leased to Huyck.Wangner Australia Pty Ltd at current annual rent of nearly $500,000.
The balance of the 8.2-hectare site has been permitted for a 16 lot subdivision. DarcyJarman Geelong's
Tim Darcy were the marketing agents.

Masonic moves

Freemasons Victoria is selling another former Masonic Centre, this time in Camberwell.

The historic two-storey temple on the south-east corner of Prospect Hill Road and Station Street, is
expected to sell for more than $3 million.

Page254of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Jellis Craig agents Peter Batrouney and Campbell Ward are promoting the Commercial 1 zoned
building to owner occupiers or investors. It is expected to be refitted as a retail, education, office or
hospitality complex.
In September Freemasons sold another historic hall in nearby Canterbury for $1.4 million. Near the
Maling Road shopping strip and Canterbury train station, 3 Rochester Road is to be reconfigured into a
high-end eatery.

Freemasons also recently announced it would co-develop with established builders sites in Box Hill,
East Melbourne and Kew East. The fraternity has also recently listed for sale the rear parcel of another
hall in Brunswick in a campaign targeting flat builders.

A Freemasons spokeswoman told BusinessDay the sell-down was not a new process but followed the
trend of its forebears who built centres to reflect changes in society and participation in Freemasonry.

"The organisation's aim is to maintain a network of modern Masonic facilities throughout metropolitan
and country regions of the state," communications manager Gabrielle Forman said. "The Inner Eastern
Masonic Centre, on Whitehorse Road, Box Hill, is one such model. Freemasons Victoria has been able
to provide a modern Masonic centre to provide for the members within a close range who were meeting
in a number of older buildings that were uneconomic to maintain".

Freemasons is a charitable organisation offering structure without religious connotation.

Home sites

The Menzies Home For Children is selling two blocks in central Frankston, both of which could make
way for medium density housing projects. The sites at 408 and 412 Nepean Highway are for sale
individually but should reap the charity a total of more than $1.6 million.
Nichols Crowder's Michael Crowder expects the Commercial 1 zones properties to also attract office or
medical developers. Childcare is one of many other potential uses. Mr Crowder said both sites had
potential water views and were a short walk to the Frankston shopping centre and business district.

Shopping Central
The company synonymous with inner-city skyscrapers has opened its first shopping centre, in
Melbourne's west.
As well as seeking apartment buyers, which it has done almost every weekend for decades, Central
Equity is now seeking retail tenants to fill the Featherbrook Village at Point Cook, 25 kilometres from the
CBD.
The Woolworths-anchored centre within a housing estate that bears the same name includes 14
specialty outlets, which agent Ross Mercorillo of CRS is leasing. His company will also manage the
approximate 5500-square-metre Central Equity centre.

In recent years Central Equity's portfolio has diversified to include suburban housing estates where a
shopping centre, like schools or community centres, add to an estate's value. It is continuing to propose
skyscrapers in Southbank, the Melbourne precinct where it established itself more than 20 years ago.

Dealership deal

A prominent north-east car dealership that mid-campaign was rezoned from Heidelberg Heights to the
more exclusive Ivanhoe, has sold. The Courtney & Patterson car dealership at 37-63 Bell Street is
understood to have exchanged for about $10 million after a campaign that attracted only developers.

After the dealership vacates next June, the 4500-square-metre complex that occupies the
8285-square-metre site will be razed. The prominent site is expected to make way for a
residential-based village with more than one tower exploiting three street frontages. It is expected
buildings will rise five or more levels.

Kelly & Kelly's Anthony Kelly and Gordon Kelly with Noel Jones Michael Nolan and John Bradbury
marketed the block.
In May another local builder, Caydon, paid almost $5 million for a 3360-square-metre open-air car park
nearby in Heidelberg Heights. Marketed as being at the highest point in metropolitan Melbourne, that
site is earmarked for a major residential tower.

Page255of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Sites near the Heidelberg train station have also sold to developers recently, including the 95-year-old
former Returned and Services League branch, which sold to a builder for $3.5 million in August.
In September Austin Healthsold a former medical centre, on a 2990-square-metre block with two street
frontages, for $5.3 million.

IN
NS
RE

PUB
AN

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
grel : Religion | gcat : Political/General News | gcom : Society/Community
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020141121eabm00067

Page256of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.