Robb nets goal for the team

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News - Opinion
Robb nets goal for the team

Jennifer Hewett
912 words
18 November 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
2
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Jennifer Hewett

Andrew Robb has delivered the Abbott government a giant end-of-year bonus and exceeded all his KPIs
as Trade and Investment Minister.

Now the Prime Minister and the rest of Team Abbott just have to sell the Australian public on the many
advantages of a trade agreement and closer relationship with China.

This should not be too hard. The prospects of exporting a much greater range of services and goods to
an ever-expanding Chinese middle class will help soothe apprehension about what will boost the
Australian economy as resources investments decline. Everyone from dairy farmers to educational
institutions, to fund managers to miners, to healthcare providers to architects, to transport operators to
accountants, to any small businesses looking for new markets should be optimistic that great trade with
China offers great opportunities rather than risks.
And increasing Australian familiarity with China and its leaders – as well as all those tourists and
students here – is providing much greater substance to the concept of a mutually beneficial partnership.
Many Chinese businesses have already learned to adapt to Australian customs and become more
sophisticated in their approach to avoid stirring any antagonism about Chinese "takeovers".

But President Xi Jinping's warm and friendly address to the national Parliament was also designed to
reassure all Australians that what he called a "win-win" approach extends to a much broader geopolitical
agenda based on China's "unshakeable" commitment to peace as well as prosperity. (No mention of
climate change, demonstrating a keen Chinese sense of domestic political "harmony".) Need for
common developmentHe openly conceded some people might have concerns about being "pushed
around by the big guy in the crowd". So his speech emphasised China's belief in the need for "common"
development, mutually beneficial progress and stability in a globalised world. The negotiations over the
free trade deal with Australia are clearly a key part of that strategy, with the President talking about the
huge changes taking place in the Chinese economy.

The deal is, of course, far from perfect – leading to inevitable complaints filling any gaps in the argument
that Australia is gaining far more than it could conceivably lose. Some would-be agriculture exporters –
like sugar, cotton and rice farmers – miss out due to China's own sensitivities, for example. Tariffs in
some other areas will take several years to finally come down to zero. China has cut its new tariffs on
coking coal, but those on thermal coal are only reduced rather than eliminated.
The Australian Industry Group also expresses concern about the potential for increased and unfair
competition from Chinese manufacturers. And the level of community angst about the levels of Chinese
investment – whether in Australian residential real estate or agricultural land and businesses –
remains. Witness the angry outburst from the Prime Minister's normally reliable ally, broadcaster Alan
Jones. Instead, Jones' views on this are more aligned with those of the (ever predictable) Greens. That

Page154of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.is despite the government maintaining the need for China's state-owned enterprises to seek approval
from the Foreign Investment Review Board for any purchases, in part to avoid confrontation with the
Nationals.

So, the government and a broad range of outward looking businesses, of whatever size, will need to
constantly counter these more negative views by reinforcing the alternative message of growth and a
broadening and deepening of the relationship with Australia's largest trading partner. The business
leaders signing memorandums of understanding in different commercial areas as part of the FTA
– watched over by Xi Jinping and Tony Abbott – certainly underscored the scope of potential trade.
Brand Australia next focus Andrew Forrest was just one of those adding his signature. His massive
business interests with China have now expanded into agriculture as well as iron ore. This has included
establishing ASA 100, the Australian Sino Hundred Year Agricultural and Food Safety Partnership,
composed of 100 significant Chinese and Australian producers and distributors.
"On the Australian side, we can offer Chinese consumers the highest- quality produce and on the
Chinese side, Chinese consumers can be confident in the reliability of supply and food safety," Forrest
says.

But Forrest is also one of those pushing a much more intense focus on selling "Brand Australia" in
general. He points out, correctly, that a national image has been neglected in favour of individual
businesses and states concentrating on selling products to the Chinese market.

That's in contrast to New Zealand's success in associating any of its dairy produce with the image of
"clean and green".

According to Robb, the deal is built around five key areas – agriculture, resources and energy,
manufacturing, services and investment.

He's particularly proud of the deal on services, saying it beats all other free trade agreements in this
sector "by a country mile".
This complements the increasing sophistication of the Chinese economy and shift away from heavy
manufacturing. Robb even used Australia's relatively modest size as an advantage in negotiations by
emphasising Australian services would not threaten massive disruption, but would provide a valuable
example and experience in what can be achieved.
A trade deal gives all Chinese businesses and officials a clear sign of official Chinese backing for
Australian imports.

This should help improve ease of access for Australian exporters – even in areas not specified in the
agreement.
Abbott called this a good day for Australia and a good day for China. He is right.

NS

RE

PUB
AN

gpol : Domestic Politics | nedc : Commentaries/Opinions | gcat : Political/General News | gpir :
Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : C&E Executive
News Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141117eabi0001p

Page155of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.