Grafton UHA

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Grafton UHA

2,269 words
28 November 2014
Coastal Views
APNCOV
Main
14
English
Copyright 2014 APN Newspapers Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved

Grafton UHA

THE United Hospital Auxiliary held their November monthly meeting on Monday 24th, there were 24
members present and seven apologies.

The meeting was opened by president Alba Linklater, the motto recited and a minute’s silence held in
remembrance of long-standing member and patron Kathleen Gertrude Donnelly fondly known as Kit.
Members attended her funeral on November 20 and formed a guard of honour at completion of the
service.

Executive officer of the Grafton Base Hospital, Dan Madden, addressed the meeting, he is hoping to see
more building works in the near future with a new ambulatory unit being a main priority.

There will also be a new ward with a four-bed intensive care unit (ICU) and a three-bed coronary care
unit. It is also hoped to relocate the renal unit which is currently situated on level three to a ground level
unit. Mr Madden also advised of a new staff appointment, Joanne Andrews, community health nurse.
The new gift shop inside the hospital on the ground floor has a large selection of goods for sale. Call in
between the hours of 10am to 3pm Monday to Friday and check out the range of gifts available.

From December 8 to December 24, the UHA will again be situated in The Link to provide gift wrapping to
the public. Look out for the ladies and have them do the work for you this Christmas for a gold coin
donation.

This was the last meeting of the UHA for 2014, the next meeting will be held in January on Monday 26th
(fourth Monday of each month). Commencing at 1pm it will be held in the Education Centre at the rear of
the hospital.

The president and committee would like to thank the people of the Clarence Valley for their support over
the past 12 months and wish everyone a Merry Christmas and a happy and safe new year.

If you are interested in helping our local hospital we suggest you volunteer with the UHA. We raise funds
to purchase vital equipment. All monies raised in Grafton stay in Grafton.

Inquiries can be made by phoning 6643 4777 or 6644 8329 or come to our next meeting.

All welcome.

Sixteen members of the United Hospital Auxiliary Grafton attended the funeral of much loved member
and patron Kathleen (Kit) Gertrude Donnelly.

Kit joined the UHA in January 1979, she was made a life member of our association at the 61st annual
general conference on August 1, 1994 at the Menzies Hotel in Sydney.

Kit was active with the UHA until about two years ago when her lack of vision became too much for her to
attend meetings.

Page58of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.She always had a smile on her face and a kind word for all and sundry.

Kit will be sadly missed by all her friends at the UHA.

Members of the UHA formed a guard of honour on completion of the service.

Chatsworth Island CWA branch

ATTENDANCE at our last meeting was pleasing with 92% of the members there.

We were invited to visit the silk art gallery in Ashby and four members attended.
Helen and Ross showed us the silk art that is hand made in China followed by a walk through their
garden which banks onto the Broadwater.

Once again our members have voted to donate a monetary gift of $200 to the local Salvation Army
towards their Christmas needs.

Next meeting will be held on December 3 at the Clarence Hotel in Maclean followed by our Christmas
festivities.

There will be Secret Santa so bring along a gift to the value of $10 if you want to participate.

Feel free to bring along a friend the more the merrier.

From all of us at Chatsworth Island CWA branch may your Christmas be merry and the new year all that
you hope it will be.

GRAFTON Senior Citizens recently held their November bus trip a day to Evans Head on a warm
summers day for the annual picnic with a full coach of 48 passengers. The day began with a drive north
on the highway to Broadwater, then into Evans Head where the group settled at Kalimna Reserve for the
day, beginning with a picnic morning tea. This was followed by some games and competitions, a picnic
lunch of sandwiches and slice then some more games. The group then had some free time in Evans
Head main street to browse and purchase afternoon refreshments before making the final journey home
to Grafton on the highway. Sincere thanks to our coach captain Alan R, for another great day, all
passengers for their support, the committee and all involved in arranging the trip and serving morning tea
and lunch. There will now be a break in trips before the first trip for the new year on February 27 to Valley
of the Mist near Macksville. This is a working farm of native fruit trees and will also include lunch before a
visit to Macnuts, a Macadamia processing factory. The trip has just gone on sale and still has plenty of
spare seats. A seven-day tour to Lightning Ridge from August 12 will go on sale at the December
meeting. If you can’t make the meeting, ring and discuss options. Full details of next year’s trips and
special functions will be placed on seniors rooms noticeboard or available from tour organisers Sandra
phone 6642 7720, or Dot phone 6642 7279. During 2015 trips will continue to be around every six weeks
in lieu of monthly. Members are reminded if unable to go on a trip, early notification to one of numbers on
brochure will give time for a replacement to be considered. Anyone interested in a tour to Tamworth in
January for the Country Music Festival contact Sandra on the above number. More support of all seniors
activities will ensure their continuation.

Iluka Bowling Club

THE Iluka Rowling Club would like to thank the Iluka Bowling Club for a very successful bowling fun day
that was a great event with 47 bowlers competing. With both novice and experienced bowlers playing
together on the day there were just a few erratic deliveries early on until the rookies realised how the bias
worked. Lunch was great and the numbers swelled to 90 with the band “2 Way Street” entertaining the
crowd who rapidly filled the dance floor. The jumping castle proved a big hit with the young folk. On the
rowing scene, club coach Gayle Armour was very happy with the club’s results at the recent Pan Pacific
Masters games where the rowing was held at Coomera Lakes on the Gold Coast. Rosemary Boulton
won three gold and two silver medals, one gold being in the single scull race. Roger Elliott won gold in
the mixed double partnered by Rosemary Boulton and two silvers, one in a quad and one in his single
race. Sandi Mayoh collected two silver medals. Gayle Armour and Rosemary Boulton combined with
Claire Millist and Joanne Meehan from the Lower Clarence club to win the womens quad. Bruce Riley
teamed with David Hailes also from the Lower River club to win gold in the men’s double scull. The
Splasher

Woombah Residents Assoc

WE HAVE much pleasure in advising that Carols by Candlelight will be held on December 5 in the
Woombah Reserve.

Page59of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Everyone is invited to attend. Come along and remember to bring a chair or rug. The event usually starts
at 6pm.

The Woombah Residents’ Association will hold a general meeting on December 1 in the Woombah
Coffee Shop at 7.30pm. There will be discussion on a survey related to coal seam gas exploration in
Woombah. Supper will be provided. All residents are invited to attend. Bring along your concerns and
suggestions. The organisation has been responsible for many of the improvements in Woombah, such as
the CountryLink bus shelter, the toilet block in the reserve and the children’s play area in the reserve and
recently the illumination of the Pacific Highway, Iluka Rd junction.

If you require further information please contact Joy Phelps on 6646 4380 or just call in to the Woombah
Coffee Shop.

Yamba Day VIEW Club

A TALE from our delegate Joy, re: mystery bus trip.

Well, what a wonderful day out 14 of our members enjoyed when we went on our mystery bus tour
Monday November 10. Program officer Dianne connived with the driver, Ian, and had us all bamboozled.

All were given a piece of paper to write the direction as to where we thought we would be taking – north,
south, east or west before Harwood bridge turnoff. Jenny was spot on naming Lawrence and winning
herself a bottle of wine.

Don’t worry girls, there was another prize of offer.

We went under the bridge and it looked for a brief moment like Maclean for morning tea, but our great
bus driver Ian performed a u-turn and headed south.

East again at Ferry Park and South over the bridge to Lawrence Ferry. Nobody guessed the museum
was our first stop and a great browse through was enjoyed by all.

After a quick morning tea under the shade trees at Lawrence, we headed off to Grafton to look at the
Jacarandas. Lunch venue guesses came thick and fast but they all fell short as we headed over the
bridge and back towards Yamba. OK, yes there were still two places on everyone’s mind, Brushgrove or
Ulmarra Pub, Ulmarra being the winner.

After a great lunch and the compulsory browse around the shops we headed towards home.

The final prize for the day was to estimate the total mileage we had travelled, with Jan being the lucky
winner. Oh well, I’ll catch the next bus, maybe I will have a win.

Yamba Yabbies

YAMBA Yabbies held their meeting No. 176 on November 17 with numbers still down.

Toastmaster Pam chose butterflies for the theme and read us a small story about a butterfly plus other
information such as 385 species, they cannot hear but feel vibrations and taste with their feet.

The butterfly is used by the Deaf Society and have Skills for Life as their motto.

All explained their roles with Maureen as timer, Jeanette as meeting listener, Brendon as general
evaluator. Noel was grammarian and gave Engender as word of the night and was used by several
members.

Jan C ran a fun and interactive educational segment about using your voice.

This caused lots of laughs. Jeanette gave us a restaurant review telling us about Aubergine Restaurant in
Griffiths, a suburb of Canberra.

Pam and Brendon celebrated a birthday during the month and a lovely bee sting was enjoyed.

After the break, Jan C read a story titled Age Activated Attention Deficit Disorder or AAADD.

A lot of us related to this, as sometimes one may have several things on the go or started and forget
where they’re up to.

Table Topics was a little different, Jeanette, Jan C, Noel, Maureen and Pam were asked a question by a
toastmaster and Jan B evaluated them in her usual comical way.

Page60of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.It was fun.

Our next meeting will be our Christmas break-up which will be held at Brendon’s.

Please let Jeanette know if you will be bringing anyone with you.

As you know, it’s BYO meat and drink and other food will be brought by members.

February 16 will be the date the club will resume and meetings will then be held first and third Monday at
Yamba Bowling Club at 7pm.

New members and visitors are always welcome.

Community news

IT HAS been another year of super events in the C.V. The Grafton to Grafton Water Ski, C.V. Muster at
Calliope, Yamba Coldstream Festival, Maclean Scottish Festival and Rodeo to name but a few and this
past Saturday, the Copmanhurst Annual Ball.

The Copmanhurst people that put the ball together have got the energy and ideas that made the night as
fun-filled and exciting as dancing was when I was learning as a teenager, 60 years ago (thank you Mum).

The outside, covered seating area is ideal for the C.V. climate and the band Together Again had the hall
bouncing with their great music and enthusiasm.

The raffle and supper were equal to all the above.

The only negative was having to finish at midnight, but the good thing is there is always next year.

Fibromyalgia

A REMINDER that Fibromyalgia is hosting a seminar on Earthing at the South Grafton Services Club in
Wharf Street, South Grafton, on Friday November 28 at 12.30pm.
Our guest speaker is Dr David Richards M.B.B.S, from Iluka. Dr Richards is using earthing and getting
some great results.

Earthing draws inflammation out of your body, so it is not only Fibromyalgia it helps, it helps anyone with
pain.

If you suffer from arthritis, asthma, Alzheimer’s disease, autism, cancer, cardiovascular disease,
diabetes, lupus, multiple sclerosis, common intestinal disorders, kidney failure, skin disorders, allergies
and pain are some of the conditions earthing helps.

Linda McNair from Barefoot Healing will be there with some of her products.

Linda will show us what is best for our needs and how to use them.

We will stay at the club for a while after 5pm, for those working people who may be interested.

We invite you to come see for yourself.

For more information please ring Coleen 6643 4050 or 0428 228 134.

NS
RE

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | tasman : Tasmania | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania

PUB APN Newspapers Pty Ltd
AN

Document APNCOV0020141126eabs0002t

Page61of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.