(AEFSF) Fonterra and Nestle realign Latin American joint venture

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

(AEFSF) Fonterra and Nestle realign Latin American joint venture

403 words
28 May 2014
Ralph Wragg Australian Business News
AAPRAW
English
Copyright 2014 RWE AUSTRALIAN BUSINESS NEWS PTY LTD. All Rights Reserved.

Sydney - Wednesday - May 28 (RWE) - Fonterra Shareholders' Fund (ASX: FSF) reports Fonterra and
Nestle have realigned their 10-year old Dairy Partners Americas (DPA) 50/50 joint venture and signed
binding agreements covering the revised scope of the partnership.

Under these agreements, signed today in Sao Paulo, Brazil: Fonterra will take a 51 per cent controlling
stake in DPA Brazil, with Nestle holding the balance.

Fonterra and its local partner will acquireNestle's share of DPA Venezuela, and will continue to operate
the business as a joint venture.
Fonterra will sell its share in DPA's milk powder manufacturing business to Nestle.
Nestle will buy Fonterra's share in Ecuador.
The DPA Brazil business will become focussed primarily on chilled dairy products, sold under Nestle
brands.

Fonterra's CEO, Theo Spierings, says the DPA joint venture has performed well for ten years and the
time is now right to realign the partnership to better reflect the respective strategies of Nestle and
Fonterra in the region.
He says the revised alliance supports Fonterra's group strategic focus on everyday nutrition in key
growth markets such as Latin America, China and Indonesia.

"We value our relationship with Nestle and this high-quality agreement will see our successful alliance
continue.

"The deal also enables the Co-operative to drive more long- term value for its farmers and investors,"
he says.

Fonterra's Managing Director of Latin America, Alex Turnbull, says: "The region's economies have
undergone considerable change during the past 10 years.

We've seen increased prosperity in markets like Brazil with rapid urban growth and a focus on healthy
nutrition driving demand for dairy products.
"A bigger stake in DPA Brazil means we will be extremely well placed to drive our volume and value
growth strategy focusing on everyday nutrition offerings".

Fonterra's Latin American footprint drives more than 900,000 metric tonnes of volume per year and $3.5
billion (NZD) in revenue from consumer dairy, foodservice and high value ingredients.

"We are very proud with what we've achieved through the DPA alliance with Nestle and look forward to
continuing to work together with renewed focus," says Mr Turnbull.

The changes to the joint venture are subject to regulatory approval, and other customary Fonterra
Co-operative Group conditions.

The parties are anticipating completion of the transactions by the end of 2014.

Page163of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.rx

CO
IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

dpam : Dairy Partners Americas | foncop : Fonterra Co-operative Group Limited | nstlc : Nestle SA
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i413 : Dairy Products | icnp : Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products
c184 : Joint Ventures | cpartn : Partnerships/Collaborations | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c18 : Ownership
Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North
America
RWE Australian Business News Pty Ltd
Document AAPRAW0020140527ea5s00336

Page164of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.