Australia takes 'open for tourism investment' message to Hong Kong

HD
WC 840 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

Australia takes 'open for tourism investment' message to Hong Kong

15 October 2014
ENP Newswire
ENPNEW
English
(c) 2014, Electronic News Publishing. All Rights Reserved.

TD

Release date - 14102014
The head of Australia's national tourism organisation, John O'Sullivan, will visit Hong Kong this week
(15-17 October) to discuss potential investment opportunities in Australia's tourism infrastructure with both
Hong Kong-based and regional investors.

In addition to addressing the Hotel Investment Conference Asia Pacific (HICAP) on 16 October, of which
Tourism Australia is a key sponsor, Mr O'Sullivan will co-host alongside Austrade (the Australian Trade
Commission) an 'Australian Hotel Investment VIP Luncheon' with up to 40 leading foreign investors.

As part of the visit Mr O'Sullivan will also unveil a new iPad app showcasing Australian tourism
investment opportunities, news on hotel developments and acquisition activity as well as up-to-date
statistics on hotel performance and tourism and aviation data.

The HICAP session, entitled 'Investment Opportunities in Australia', will include a panel discussion with a
group of senior investors with experience in tourism infrastructure projects in Australia. This will be
followed by a presentation showcasing Sydney's CBD Sandstone Buildings, one of Australia's most
exciting current tourism investment opportunities, followed by a series of one-on-one investor meetings.

Mr O'Sullivan said that investment in new tourism infrastructure was a key plank of Australia's Tourism
2020 strategy, with a target of between 6,000 and 20,000 additional hotel rooms by the end of the
decade.

'HICAP is an important conference as it attracts investors from all of Australia's tourism investment target
markets and also gives us a valuable platform to demonstrate our credentials in what is our fastest
growing and most lucrative inbound tourism market,' he said.

Tourism Australia and Austrade have signed a five year partnership to work cooperatively to attract
tourism investment. Tourism infrastructure is one of the government's five national investment priorities.

'Trade and Investment Minister Andrew Robb, the minister responsible for tourism, has identified it as one
of the key sectors driving Australia's long-term prosperity. Austrade and Tourism Australia are working
hand in hand to maximise that potential,' said Austrade CEO, Bruce Gosper. Tourism investment project
'wins' so far under the Tourism Australia-Austrade partnership include:
The Jewel, Gold Coast: Dalian Wanda Group (China's largest five-star hotel owner) announced in August
2014 plans to develop tourism-related infrastructure in Australia worth A$900m. The first project will be a
beachfront resort on the Gold Coast, The Jewel, including a luxury five star hotel. The Dalian Wanda
Group identified Australia as a priority market for future investment following participation in an investment
roundtable chaired by the Minister for Trade and Investment Andrew Robb, during Australia Week in
China;
Double Island, Palm Cove: Austrade played a key role in the Chang Yuang Group's purchase of the
boutique resort in November 2012. The offshore resort, near Palm Cove, has 38 villas/apartments and 10
Eco motel style accommodation capabilities. Chang Yuang Group's initial investment is reportedly
A$5.8m with an expected further investment of A$10m to build new tourism infrastructure and facilities;

Page177of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Willow Creek Winery, Mornington Peninsula: China's KCC Real Estate Development Company's
Australian investment Arm, Cloud Investment Operations, signed the sales contract to acquire Willow
Creek Winery for A$9.5m in July 2013. KCC plans to invest a further A$10m in developing a 39-room,
upmarket boutique hotel on the 18-hectare vineyard on the Mornington Peninsula in Victoria. This
investment will bring new high quality accommodation to this regional tourism area;
Ovolo Hotels, Australian Expansion: Australia was Hong Kong-based boutique hotel group Ovolo's first
international location. To further strengthen the group's presence in the Australian hotel market, the group
has purchased 'Oaks on Lonsdale' for approx. A$70m which will be rebranded, upgraded and
transformed into a contemporary, all-suite lifestyle hotel. Austrade and Tourism Australia have been
providing ongoing assistance to Ovolo.

Australia is the world's eighth largest national tourism market and a major destination for business
investment. Located in the world's strongest tourism region and largest aviation market, Australia offers a
secure and stable environment for tourism investors.

Fast facts:
Australia's tourism industry is worth A$100.1 billion, with 6.6m international visitors spending A$30.1
billion annually;

Australia's economy ranks 12th largest in the world and has enjoyed 24 consecutive years of growth;

Australia has the 4th largest GDP in the Asia-Pacific region and is forecast to grow at the highest rate
amongst major advanced economies;

Tourism has recently been identified by Deloitte Access Economics as one of the five 'super sectors' set
to drive Australia's long term future economic growth.

The new iPad App is free and will be available for download from the App Store by searching for
'Australian Tourism - Open for Investment'.

Contacts for this article

Tourism Australia

Leo Seaton

Media Relations Manager

+61 2 9361 1363

[Editorial queries for this story should be sent to newswire@enpublishing.co.uk]

CO
IN

NS

RE

austr : Australian Trade Commission
i6651 : Hotels (except Casino)/Motels | i66 : Hotels/Restaurants | i665 : Lodgings | ilea :
Leisure/Arts/Hospitality | itourm : Tourism
gtour : Travel | npress : Press Releases | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | ncat :
Content Types
austr : Australia | china : China | dalian : Dalian | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | liaon : Liaoning

PUB Electronic News Publishing Ltd.
AN

Document ENPNEW0020141015eaaf000al

Page178of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.