Copper mine's absurdist drama

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Copper mine's absurdist drama

Matthew Stevens
1,400 words
7 March 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
28
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Looming deadlines for GlencoreXstrata's decision on the sale of a Peruvian copper mine that was
required by China's competition regulator has Australians sitting at polar ends of arrangements waiting
impatiently for closure. The mine in question is a $US6 billion ($6.7 billion) greenfields project called
Las Bambas.
Commitments on its sale were extracted by China's regulator, MOFCOM (Ministry of Commerce), as a
condition of the Middle Kingdom's approval of the biggest merger in mining history, Glencore's
takeover of Xstrata. It seemed pretty certain from the get-go that the big beneficiary of Glencore's
deal-sealing concession would be China Inc.

So it has proven, with China MinMetals (CMM) said to be the only cab still on the rank for Las Bambas.
Which brings me to the first Australians left on tenterhooks by a sale process that is sort of illustrative of
how many roads in global mining seem to intersect with Melbourne.
The bloke actually running CMM's copper chase is former WMC Resources and Oz Minerals chief
executive, Andrew Michelmore. Since 2009, Michelmore has run a Hong Kong-listed, mainland
China-owned mining house called MMG, formerly known as Minerals and Metals Group.

He runs the business from an office in Melbourne's Freshwater Place and just about everyone on his
senior executive shares pedigree in either BHP Billiton or WMC.

A decision on Las Bambas had been expected in February but Glencore indicated at Tuesday's 2013
profit briefing that it was now aiming for the end of March. The MOFCOM deadline for signing a binding
sale agreement is September 30.
There is speculation that MMG has been frustrated by the pace of the sale process and has been
increasingly irritated by the tardiness of Glencore's response to requests for information from the Las
Bambas data room.

And that might well inform the growing balance of opinion that says Glencore is more likely to hold on to
Las Bambas than sell it.

For its part, Glencore says the process is still very live and that the trigger for uncertainty is the same
now as it always was: price.

The MOFCOM settlement says the final price must be the higher of either a market valuation by two
Glencore selected investment banks or the total cost of the mine. The thing has cost nearly
$US6 billion. Given Las Bambas is a 450,000-tonnes-a-year, multi-decade operation that is very near
completion and thus increasingly de-risked, Glencore is said to be looking for a premium comfortably
higher than capital invested.Small question of ownership

Page24of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Which brings us to the second group of Australians that are watching this deal with their long-term fate
left uncertain by its result.

Just over the Yarra River, at a slightly more Protestant office in Collins Street, sits plucky and persistent
Indophil Resources.

It is run by another WMC old boy, Richard Laufmann. And it owns 37.5 per cent of the second-biggest
copper deposit WMC ever found. It is called Tampakan and the reason that, nearly 20 years after
discovery, it is still one of the world's top-10 undeveloped copper resources is that it is on the troubled
Philippines island of Mindanao.

Laufmann has seen partners in Tampakan come and go. But currently his big brother is Glencore,
which reluctantly speaks for a 62.5 per cent stake in the project as a result of the Xstrata takeover.
Glencore's billionaire boss Ivan Glasenberg doesn't like expensive greenfields projects, so Tampakan
is one of several long copper assets currently listed for sale.

So how does that tie back to MOFCOM and Las Bambas?
Well, as it turns out, China has listed Tampakan as one of four assets that can be surrendered to an
auction process should Glencore fail to settle on Las Bambas. The other three options include
Glencore's share of the Freida River prospect in Papua New Guinea, the El Pachon project in Argentina
or the mature Alumbrera mine also in Argentina.

Given Glencore has already said it wants to find a way out of Tampakan, you could be forgiven for
thinking there was no real problem for Indophil in Tampakan appearing on this list. But far from being
flattered, Indophil recently made clear its irritation by announcing firmly its claim on protective rights
over any sale that Glencore might contemplate, forced auction or otherwise.

Those rights mean Indophil can recover full ownership at whatever price might be set in the auction
contemplated in the MOFCOM process. The other complication here is that, in a technical sense only,
Glencore would be selling something it doesn't yet own. While mining's new giant has firm ownership
rights over Tampakan, it is still not a registered owner of the asset in the Philippines.

The delay in registration dates way back to 2007 when Xstrata exercised its rights over a 62.5 per cent
stake in the project. As it turned out, that transaction triggered capital gains tax obligations in Australia
and the Philippines. Under the terms of a bilateral tax treaty, Indophil applied to the Philippines for
protection from double taxation. Remarkably, it is still waiting on a ruling. So like Waiting for Godot's
Vladimir and Estragon, Glencore waits for its ownership to be registered. To hurry things along,
Glencore is seeking Supreme Court orders in Queensland in a case that is supposed to start on the 14
April.

Rio Tinto chairman Jan du Plessis appears to have had some very specific challenges at the front of his
mind in the selection of two new directors invited to join the Anglo-Australian miner's board overnight.
A former head of French nuclear power companyAreva Group, Anne Lauvergeon, will become the first
Gallic director of the increasingly international board that du Plessis has assembled over the past four
years.

Meanwhile, the introduction of former Anglo Americanexecutive Simon Thompson adds another layer of
experience in dealing with the complexities of commercial life in Africa, which hosts of some of Rio's
most challenging growth options.

Given the delicacies of the heavy lifting that Rio Alcan might yet need to do in the recasting of the
French outposts, Lauvergeon looks to be an inspired choice. A mining engineer who is currently a
director of American Express, Vodafone and Total, her curriculum vitae announces a commercial and
political savvy that is all too typical of the French industrial classes. Rio reports that Lauvergeon was an
economic adviser at the French Presidency where she also served as deputy chief of staff.
Like Lauvergeon, Thompson has a wealth of experience in banking, mining and, more recently, energy.
And as with his new French colleague, that appears to have left Thompson well connected. The former
Oxford and Rothschilds man has served on boards as geographically diverse as Newmont Mining Corp,
AngloGold Ashanti and Rusal. But it is likely to be Thompson's executive past and his boardrooms
present that secured him the nod from du Plessis. The new guy ended up running Anglo American's
base metals business before moving into non-executive life. He is currently chairman of Tullow Oil, a
North Sea oil driller trying to make a new life in the oil basins of Ghana and Uganda.

Page25of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Rio, of course, has a productive history in Africa. The continent of confusion currently hosts two of the
company's biggest challenges, in the form of a new iron ore development in Guinea and an acquired
coal disappointment in Mozambique.

The headliner there, of course, is Guinea's Simandou project. It is easily the biggest, best undeveloped
iron ore asset in the world. Digging it up will be easy. Getting the stuff from mine to coast and from
coast to boat is going to be a whole lot more complicated. Rio's Mozambique coal, on the other hand,
shares the worst of Simandou's problems (isolation and uncertain politics) but not its best (top product).

Finally, having added two directors to replace one (Vivienne Cox), Rio's chairman says he remains on
the hunt for another Australian director.

While there are two executive directors, CEO Sam Walsh and chief financial officer Chris Lynch, Rod
Eddington's retirement left one local non-executive director in the form of AFL chairman Mike Fitzpatrick.

CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

march : Glencore Xstrata PLC
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2114 : Copper Ore/Nickel Ore Mining | imet : Mining/Quarrying | ibasicm :
Basic Materials/Resources | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer
Services
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | c34 : Anti-Competition Issues | cacqu : Acquisitions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | reqrmm : Suggested Reading Metals/Mining | c18 : Ownership Changes |
cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News
Filter | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140306ea370000c

Page26of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.