CASINO STOCKS A GAMBLE

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Lifestyle
CASINO STOCKS A GAMBLE

FINANCE WITH BILL HARCOURT
941 words
2 April 2014
Manly Daily
MANLYD
Manly
24
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved

Some readers have objected to our recent emphasis on gambling stocks. For example, a few weeks
back I reviewed one of my most profitable personal investments, James Packer’s Crown Casino (ASX
CWN) and referred to the Vietnam casino Donaco (ASX DNA).

It seems Australians will tolerate and perhaps participate in gambling, just as long as it does not
interfere with other activities. Recall the controversy about Tom Waterhouse’s participation in rugby
league sports commentaries.

First, a declaration of prejudice: I worked my way through university as a provincial bookmaker’s
bagman in the good old/bad old days. I carried the bag, strapped over my shoulder that held my
racecourse bookie’s money and had some of the best years of my life.

There’s no specific condemnation of gambling in the Bible’s Old or New Testaments. In fact, we read
about the casting of lots. “Joshua then cast lots for them in Shiloh in the presence of the Lord, and
there he distributed the land to the Israelites” (Joshua 18:10).

However, Islam forbids gambling and usury as well. In the Western world, due to financial integration,
this has led to a relatively new Islamic system of finance.
Quoting from the Qur’an, 2.219 (al-Baqara): “They ask you about wine and gambling. Say: ‘In them
both lies grave sin, though some benefit, to mankind. But their sin is more grave than their benefit’. ”
This has not stopped giant Asian casino group Genting having headquarters in Malaysia, a
predominantly Islamic nation. As well, some of the best racehorses in the world are owned by the
Sheiks of the strictly Islamic United Arab Emirates in the Persian and Oman gulfs.

It appears those Australians with strong moral sensibilities are opposed to gambling, but in the wider
community it is tolerated.

According to Australian National University research, Australians feel sympathetic to people with
gambling problems.

However, they view compulsive gambling as a moral failing to which a high level of social stigma is
attached. Thus gambling addiction is treated more harshly than other forms of addiction.

This deters people with a gambling habit from seeking help. As well, while levels of drug addiction can
be measured, there is no way of measuring levels of gambling addiction.

For investors with a moral approach to investment, there is “Green” ethical funds. A number of unlisted
funds are run by Australian Ethical Investments with impressive returns.

Australian Ethical Investments is a listed fund (ASX AEF) priced at $30.70 and yielding 4.7 per cent.
Returns are impressive but the daily turnover of AEF shares is extremely low.

Page198of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.As for the Asian gambling stock Donaco International (ASX DNA), I was, shall we say, “adventurous”
enough to buy recently at $1.42. Almost immediately the stock rose to $1.52 but has suddenly fallen to
$1.38. Thank goodness we did not include it in our portfolio below.

Little stocks with big ambitions can be an investor’s graveyard. Donaco has announced it has binding
commitments to raise $75 million by issuing $56.39 million shares at $1.33 from institutions and
“sophisticated” investors (those with a net worth of more than $2.5 million).
The company would also issue a further 29.64 million shares subject to shareholder approval.
Donaco operates in the leisure, entertainment and associated technology business across Asia. Its
only operation so far is the Lao Cai boutique casino on the Vietnamese side of the China/Vietnam
border. Buses carry Chinese punters from the border to the casino.
The company is at present upgrading its casino and hotel there. The number of gambling tables is
being substantially increased. One assumes that the cost of this facelift has already been covered.
So where is the $75 million going?
It is understood that Donaco will use the funds to acquire a casino or casinos in Vietnam, Cambodia,
Laos or Thailand. I calculate there are already 15 casinos operating in these four nations.

Note any purchase of a casino will not be associated with the Genting giant but may be associated with
another entity. Purchase will take place after detailed due diligence and a decision may take two
months.

A number of casinos in the above four countries are operating close to the borders of neighbouring
states and are aimed at attracting foreign gamblers via a network of junket operators.

In the purchase of Donaco I made a basic investor error – lack of research. I had no idea how many
casinos existed in these smaller countries.
As well, when one makes a successful investment in a company in a particular industry one looks for
similar investments hoping to have the same success. However, there is a good deal of difference
between Jamie Packer’s Crown Casino empire and an obscure operation in the jungles of Vietnam!
Note the broker Baillieu Holst has downgraded Donaco from a “Buy” to a “Hold” due to lack of
information, but I’m reluctantly hanging in there. Why? It will enable me to recall and comment on my
mistake.

Incidentally, I am not a casino fan. There is a reason. As a 19-year-old student recently out of school on
my first visit to Europe, I had to telegram Mum in Sydney from the Principality of Monte Carlo. Guess
why.

wharcour@bigpond.net.au

SIX-MONTH HI-VALUE PORTFOLIO ■ Bionomics (bought 17/1/14) at 69.5 cents now 56 cents ■
Sydney Airport (bought 14/2/14) at $3.94 now $4.25■ Ardent Leisure (bought 7/3/14) at $2.41 now
$2.52

NS

RE
PUB
AN

gcgamb : Compulsive Gambling | gaddic : Addictions | gcat : Political/General News | gcom :
Society/Community/Work | ghea : Health | gmed : Medical Conditions | gment : Mental Health | gsoc :
Social Issues
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document MANLYD0020140401ea4200013

Page199of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.