Parmalat spreads its game

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

AGRIBUSINESS
Parmalat spreads its game

Andrew Marshall
437 words
3 April 2014
The Land
FTLAND
27
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

PARMALAT Australia has bought West Australian-based dairy and fruit juice business Harvey
Fresh, the State's second largest dairy processor.

Parmalat said the deal was part of its strategy to grow its Australian and export activities and gives
the company a strategic footprint in the west.

Parmalat's global headquarters in Italy is understood to have paid about $117 million (79m euro)
for Harvey's WA and NSW processing assets.
"With this transaction, the Parmalat Group strengthens its position in the Australian market,
broadening its geographic footprint and becomes a fully national player," a company statement
said.

The acquisition would also further improve Parmalat's export capability, taking advantage of
Harvey's 20-plus years of export contacts.
Harvey Fresh, based in south west WA's Harvey district, is a family company established in 1986
as a fruit juice processing venture, now producing fresh and long-life lines.

It first exported cloudy apple juice to Asia in 1988 and now sends a variety of fruit and vegetables
juices to export markets.
Harvey also specialises in producing fresh and ultra heat treated (UHT) milk dairy products,
including flavoured and lactose-free milk lines, and packs milk for the Brownes label and milk and
juice lines for Coles supermarkets.
In 1999, the company diversified into making its own Harvey River Bridge Estate wine from grapes
source within WA's cool climate Geographe region and now packs house brand wine labels, too.
Harvey Fresh's significant juice beverage business was expanded further with the purchase of the
Nugan Group based at Griffith in the NSW Riverina in 2012, picking up a big fruit and vegetable
product customer base and more than 12,000 square metres of production and coolroom facilities.
The company has two production facilities at Harvey and Hanwood employing about 250 staff, plus
80 hectares of orchards and last year recorded revenue of about $168m.
Parmalat, one of the world's biggest dairy processing businesses, particularly in the UHT and
yoghurt markets, has had a foothold in Australia since buying the Victorian border processing
operation Haberfields Dairy at Albury-Wodonga in 1996.
Two years later it outbid National Foods to buy Brisbane-based Pauls for $436m, also giving it
dairy plants in Victoria at Bendigo and Rowville.
Parmalat has since moved into the Sydney market, buying the Dairy Farmers' Lidcombe plant and
the Perfection brand.

Page127of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Parmalat, originally Italian-owned but bought by French group Lac- talis in 2011, also has
operations in Europe, Latin America, North America, China and South Africa.

CO
IN

RE
PUB
AN

cenord : Parmalat SpA | slb : Groupe Lactalis
i413 : Dairy Products | ijuice : Fruit Juices | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i428 : Soft Drinks |
ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products | inonal : Non-alcoholic
Beverages/Drinks
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FTLAND0020140402ea430001v

Page128of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.