WA farmers connect with end-user market

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

EARLY GENERAL NEWS
WA farmers connect with end-user market

TRAVIS KING
507 words
13 March 2014
Farm Weekly
FFARMW
20
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

NINE WA growers and CBH staff are currently on a study tour of Japan, China and Vietnam that
aims to connect growers with the end-user in export markets.

On the trip are Andrew Nixon, Moora, Gary Walter, Cascade, Phil Mincherton, Ballidu, Chris Syme,
Cunderdin, Andrew Chitty, Williams, John Northover, Dalwallinu, Natalie Browning, Kondinin, Dean
Levett, Walkaway and Paul Cunningham, Tambellup.

The tour is being led by CBH staff Richard Simonatis, Aiden Blechynden, Tom Puddy and Sophie
Doyle.
The group has already toured Japan, where it was hosted by the Zen-NohGroup, one of the world's
largest co-operatives and a trading partner with CBH for the past 44 years.
Zen-Noh employs 8000 people and posted a total consolidated turnover of $US62.144 billion in
2012 and it has a 30 per cent share of the total compound feed production in Japan.
During the Japan leg, the group met with Zen-Noh executives in Tokyo and heard from its vice
president, Hiroyuki Kawasaki.

Heavy and unusual snow events hit the agricultural areas of Japan in February, causing great
damage to local production, affecting fruit, vegetables, milk and eggs supply and this has flowed
through to supermarket shelves, with shortages of these commodities.

Impacts such as this on Japanese domestic agricultural production is felt by consumers and
according to Mr Kawasaki, it is also the reason Japanese consumers understand why the country
must import food ingredients.

"They understand how severe weather affects produce supply," Mr Kawasaki told the delegation of
CBH growers that toured Japan last week.

"Japanese consumers understand farming and the supply chain.
"Zen-NohGroup has two missions.
"One is to supply the farmers and the other is to buy back the finished product from the farmer and
sell to the consumer.

"We cannot produce all the ingredients needed to do this, so we must import some of them.

"This is where Zen-Noh plays an important role.

"It must help sustain a stable supply source from overseas and this is why our relationship with CBH
and the WA farmer is very important."

Page237of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The group then travelled to the Yoshihara Flour Mill which sources WA Noodle wheat to supply the
large Udon noodle market in Japan.
It then headed to the north of the country and met with the Hokuren co-operative group.
From there the group moved to China, starting with a visit to one of the country's largest brewing
companies.
The Yanging Brewing Company produces 1.2 million metric tonnes of beer annually and uses
250,000 tonnes of barley.

Seventy per cent of that is Australian barley.
At the time of writing the group was set to leave Beijing for southern China to inspect feed mills and
a malt house, before heading on to Vietnam where they would be meeting with Interflour.

p For a special feature on the tour see next week's Farm Weekly.

CO
IN
NS
RE

PUB
AN

zennoh : National Federation of Agricultural Co-operative Associations
i01001 : Farming | i0 : Agriculture
c21 : Output/Production | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
jap : Japan | waustr : Western Australia | kanag : Kanagawa | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FFARMW0020140312ea3d0002g

Page238of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.