Prescott fields tough questions

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Prescott fields tough questions

Jenny Wiggins
505 words
13 November 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
23
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Aurizon avoided a second strike on its remuneration report at its annual general meeting as chairman
John Prescott defended the rail group's expansion projects and financial investments.

Aurizon's remuneration report passed with 93 per cent votes cast in favour, avoiding a potential board
spill, after the company addressed investor concerns about remuneration.

Aurizon incurred a "first strike" against its report last year when only 72 per cent of votes were cast in
favour, due to concerns about the size of executive pay packages and weak performance hurdles.

Mr Prescott, who will step down as chairman within the next 12 months, faced tough questions from
investors about the company's financial exposure to the Wiggins Island Coal Export Terminal
(WICET) and expansion plans in Queensland and Western Australia.

Mr Prescott claimed Aurizon did not face "significant risk" on its investments in WICET despite the
collapse of one of its coalmining owners, Bandanna Energy, in September.

WICET's opening, scheduled for this month, is likely to be delayed and receivers have been
positioning to act for the terminal, which was funded with some $3 billion of debt, if it is restructured.
Aurizon, which has built rail lines for WICET, has already written off some $45 million it invested in
designs for additional rail links at the terminal and nearby Dudgeon Point after further expansion
plans were scrapped.Coal haulage defended
Mr Prescott also defended the future of Aurizon's coal haulage operations, in response to questions
about the sustainability of the coal industry, arguing that millions of people around the world still
depended on power generation fuelled by coal, and that coal consumption would continue to
increase over the next few decades.

Investors queried how much money Aurizon would spend on planned infrastructure projects in WA's
Pilbara region and Queensland's Galilee Basin.
Mr Prescott said the company had made no commitments because it was juggling "a number of balls
at the same time". But he confirmed that Aurizon could get project financing for rail and port
developments in the Pilbara, in partnership with China's Baosteel, or sell a stake in its Queensland
rail tracks business to pay for its Galilee rail and port developments in partnership with India's
GVK Hancock.

He also claimed there would be no delay to the expansion of port facilities at Abbot Point after
disputes over the dumping of dredge spoil, arguing that GVK and Aurizon were still in the early stages
of planning.

Page43of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mr Prescott declined to comment on Indian press reports that GVK group chairman GVK Reddy was
being investigated by Mumbai police over allegations that the company received "undue benefits" on
a project to modernise Mumbai airport.

Aurizon's shares rose 10¢, or 2 per cent, to close at $4.80 – its highest level since late August – after
it said it would buy back up to 107 million shares over the next 12 months. Mr Prescott said the
buyback was undertaken after requests from shareholders.

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

eeaus : Bandanna Energy Limited | qrntnl : Aurizon Holdings Limited
i1 : Energy | i111 : Coal Mining | i71 : Railroads | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | icargo :
Freight/Cargo Transport | imet : Mining/Quarrying | irailtr : Road/Rail Transport | irfrght : Railroad
Freight | itsp : Transportation/Shipping
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141112eabd0000m

Page44of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.