Bread wars — you get what you pay for

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

WhatsOn
Bread wars — you get what you pay for

N Durrant
524 words
13 October 2014
Riverine Herald
MPRIVH
M015
English
Copyright 2014. McPherson Media Group.

Three years ago it started with the milk wars.
Supermarket giant Coles fired the first shot when it slashed its discounted milk line to $1 a litre.

Woolworths, the other colossus in the Australian supermarket chain, quickly followed.
The fallout of the milk wars included a Senate inquiry which found the decision was a win for
consumers and had not badly affected the Australian dairy industry. (But I doubt dairy farmers were
jumping up and down with excitement.)
In the same year, the two supermarkets reduced their already cut-price bread to $1 a loaf.
Now, in the past fortnight Woolworths has dropped its home brand bread to a low of 85 cents a loaf,
which was quickly followed by Coles.
Personally, I don’t buy home brand. Never have, never will, even if they were giving it away (which
they almost are).

There’s a saying ‘‘You get what you pay for’’ and, in the world of retail, generally this is true.
If you buy a $2 shirt made in Bangladesh or China, it will not keep its colour or shape for as long as
the $30 shirt made in Australia (if you can find one made in Australia).
If you buy 85c bread, it is not going to taste as good as $4 bread made fresh in a bakery that
morning.

It is the reason people pay good money to splurge and eat in nice restaurants, rather than choose the
fast food outlet down the road.
It’s the reason people (who can afford it) buyMercedes Benz cars instead of Great Walls.

And yet, in the world of food production, so many people are driven purely on price, rather than taste.
Ironically, as we buy cheap bread and milk to shove down our own throats and our children’s, we
splurge on dog food, with statistics showing people spend more money on the top-end dog food
brands.
According to Roy Morgan, Coles and Woolworths control 72.5 per cent of the $82 billion grocery
market in Australia.

That’s a huge amount of might and power for two supermarkets to wield.
So, yes, they can afford to sell their bread for 85 cents a loaf and absorb any shortfall in their plethora
of other lines.

Page75of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.But at the end of the day, is this good for the future of food production in Australia?

As Woolworths and Coles take shots at each other, they are continually trying to reduce their own
costs (to the detriment of the farmer producing it) while keeping their shareholders happy.

Unfortunately we live in a society where everyone wants everything now and be damned about the
consequences of our actions.

Everybody wants quality food, but refuses to pay that little bit extra for it.

Australia produces some of the best quality food in the world, but where will we be in a decade or two,
or even six, when farmers can no longer make a living producing food because it is being sold for less
than its cost of production?

But it will be cheap.

CO
IN

RE
PUB
AN

colsgj : Coles Group Ltd | wsfrm : Wesfarmers Ltd
i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i6411 : Supermarkets/Grocery Stores | i010010502 : Dairy Cattle
Farming | i0 : Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | i0100105 : Cattle Farming | i41 :
Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i413 : Dairy Products | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i641 : Food Retailing | i654
: Specialty Stores | icnp : Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products | ilsfarm : Livestock Farming |
iretail : Retail | i656 : Mixed Retailing | i6560002 : Department Stores
austr : Australia | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
McPherson Media Group
Document MPRIVH0020141012eaad00003

Page76of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.