Georgia on his mind

26 February 2014
Canberra Times
CANBTZ

HD Georgia on his mind
BY
WC 721 words
PD
SN
SC
PG C014
LA
CY
LP

By The Canberra Times

English
(c) 2014 The Canberra Times

Georgia on his mind

John Wurdeman sings the praises of Georgian clay vessels and amber wines, writes Huon Hooke.

TD

Eat, drink, merry - John Wurdeman fell in love with a culture; Pheasant's Tears' cellar, right.
B lame the traditional winemakers of Georgia, the former USSR state. They're behind the trend towards
fermenting white wine on its skins in clay amphorae, concrete eggs and other strange vessels. It's loosely
known as "orange" wine, and it's part of the "natural" wine movement that's taking root in many wineries,
across Australia and the world. The Georgians call their clay vessels qvevri (pronounced kwevri) and
they're hardly new. According to a Georgian winemaker who attended the recent Rootstock Sydney wine
festival, John Wurdeman of Pheasant's Tears winery, the qvevri is the only vessel used in Georgia.
They've been used there for 8000 to 9000 years. "The qvevri is lined with acacia wax and buried in the
earth," he explains. "It breathes like a barrel but imparts no flavour or tannin to the wine." Today, qvevri
are so fashionable throughout the winemaking world that even the Georgians must join a long queue to
buy new ones. Wurdeman, whose Pheasant's Tears wines have recently become available in Australia
through importer Vinous Solutions, isn't a native Georgian: he's United States-born. An artist, he went to
Moscow to study painting and, while there, learnt Russian. Then he discovered Georgia, fell in love with
Georgian polyphony, a unique kind of choral part- singing, and went to live there. Then he fell in love with
Georgian wine, and resolved to make his own. In 2007, he established a wine-producing business with
eighth-generation Georgian winemaker, Gela Paliashvili. Pheasant's Tears has 12 hectares of vines in
one province and seven hectares in another, and produces 38,000 bottles of wine a year. Its vines are
managed according to biodynamic principles and have an organiccertification. Orange wines are
fashionable in a fringe kind of way, and you'll find them on many smart restaurant wine lists. Wurdeman
prefers the term amber wine, rather than orange. "They're not white and they're not red, but in between,"
he says. They're amber because they've been fermented with their skins: Pheasant's Tears' amber wines
spend between one and six months on skins. This is unusual and much longer than the reds, which have
a 10 days to four weeks' skinmaceration. Not surprisingly, amber wines are quite tannic because,
Wurdeman says, they're meant to go with food. The 2011 Kisi was formidably grippy and a little
charmless. It was my least favourite white without food, but with

food it suddenly became my favourite. It was transformed. And the rkatsiteli, which had been my favourite
without food, did not satisfy at all with food. It lacked the structure to accompany food. My preferences
were reversed. Without leading the witness, Wurdeman had made his point. Pheasant's Tears produces
wine from six varieties, all vitis vinifera and all indigenous to Georgia. The wines are quite confronting,
although not as difficult to taste as I had feared. I would have to say that most drinkers accustomed to
modern white wines might find the amber wines taste slightly oxidised, but not detrimentally. Wurdeman
believes in giving his wines a little sulphur dioxide beforebottling. Pheasant's Tears Dry unfiltered amber
wines Chinuri 2011 $56 One month on skins. Full amber hue, gingerbread aroma, soft light tannins.
Mtsvane 2011 (not available in Australia) Three months on skins. Full orange- amber hue, vaguely citrusy,
orange-peel and fruit compote aromas. Quite tannic. Kisi 2011 $56 Dried apricot, cooked fruit and
crushed- seashell aromas. Very grippy tannins. This makes a statement. Rkatsiteli 2009 $56 Full
orange-amber hue, spicy stone-fruit aromas, almost as spicy as traminer. Fruity, soft, round and balanced;
low tannin. Unfiltered red wines Takveri 2012 $56 (due late April) Ten days on skins. Clear, bright, deep
red- purple; clean spicy and ironstone aromas. Light-bodied, soft and spicy taste, with gentle structure.

Page46of60©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Saperavi 2007 $56 (due late April) Four weeks on skins; two years in qvevri. Dark colour; intense black
fruits, licorice and spice aromas; savoury, with ample but smooth tannins and good length.

RF
NS
RE

54374023
gfod : Food/Drink | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle
canbrr : Canberra | apacz : Asia Pacific | auscap : Australian Capital Territory | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
austr : Australia

PUB Federal Capital Press of Australia Pty Ltd
AN

Document CANBTZ0020140225ea2q0002j

Page47of60©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.