Guide to foreign sales

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

RealEstate
Guide to foreign sales

ADAM ZUCHOWSKI
484 words
8 November 2014
Herald-Sun
HERSUN
HeraldSunRE
6
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

AUSTRALIAN property is viewed internationally as being a safe, stable and secure investment with
the potential to substantially increase in value.
It is for this reason that Australian property ownership is becoming increasingly attractive to foreign
purchasers.

In particular, Australia appears to be one of the most popular investment destinations for Chinese
nationals, who by some estimates spent about $6 billion on Australian real estate last financial year.
The Foreign Investment Review Board, or FIRB as it is commonly known, is the government institution
that regulates the purchase of Australian property by overseas purchasers. The FIRB is required to
approve all transactions by overseas purchasers in accordance with the Foreign Acquisitions and
Takeovers Act. Currently overseas purchasers are only permitted to purchase new residential
property as opposed to existing property.

However, it is interesting to note that there are a number of exemptions contained in the act. For
example, if an overseas purchaser is studying in Australia or if the existing home is to be demolished
and two or more units constructed in its place, the FIRB will permit an existing home to be purchased.
But what or who exactly is an overseas purchaser?
An overseas purchaser is a person who is not a resident in Australia. This person is defined as being a
“foreign interest”.
Should they wish to purchase Australian real estate, which is defined to include all urban land, they
will require FIRB approval. There are however different rules relating to the purchase of commercial
property.
The Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act provides that it is an offence for such a person to buy a
property without first obtaining FIRB approval. It is possible for such a person to enter into a contract
of sale that is conditional on obtaining FIRB approval, however settlement of that contract of sale may
not proceed until FIRB approval is granted. The procedure for obtaining FIRB approval is relatively
straightforward and can be applied for over the internet. Should an overseas purchaser purchase
property without FIRB approval, there are severe criminal penalties.

It is now commonplace for developers (of projects that number more than 10 properties) who are
constructing residential properties to seek pre-approval from the FIRB to sell 50 per cent of that
project to overseas purchasers.
An overseas purchaser buying a property that has already received pre-approval will not then be
required to seek individual approval for their purchase. However, should an overseas buyer purchase
a property after that 50 per cent allocation has already been sold, they will be required to apply for
individual FIRB approval in the usual way.

Page44of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.As always this article contains general information only and should not be relied on for detailed advice
related to your particular circumstances. Should you require such advice, please contact your
lawyer.Adam Zuchowski is a principal property lawyer with Network Legal & Associates

IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

irreal : Residential Real Estate | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ireest :
Real Estate
c31 : Marketing/Markets | greest : Real Estate/Property | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat :
Political/General News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document HERSUN0020141107eab80000o

Page45of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.