China FTA whets abalone appetite

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

China FTA whets abalone appetite

Matt Mckenzie
490 words
28 November 2014
Business News
WABN
English
© Copyright 2014 Business News Pty Ltd.

The southern town of Augusta will be home to a new artificial reef as a Western Australian company
uses local technology to improve productivity in abalone ranching.
Ocean Grown Abalone received approval for commercial production on a 120-hectare site earlier
this month and plans to produce up to 100 tonnes annually.

To this end, the company is seeking to raise $5 million for commercialisation through a convertible
note issue.

The value of WA's abalone exports totalled $11 million in 2013-14 for 200 tonnes of product.
About $4 million of that was sold to China, which agreed to cut abalone tariffs in the recently signed
free trade agreement with Australia, while $5 million worth is exported to Japan.

Ocean Grown managing director Brad Adams said he hoped the product would be successful
domestically and in the Asian 'dining boom'.

"I think aquaculture's got a big future, certainly in WA, with our proximity to Asia, we've got good
regulations, we've got good water quality, and we're starting to get really good government support,"
he said.

"We're looking at developing a brand domestically; it's a product that is really suited to an entrée
style.
"We had our abalone on the menu down at the Leeuwin Estate ... for the Gourmet Escape.

"The product was received exceptionally well."
Mr Adams said the estate had added the mollusc to its summer menu and expected it would be a
popular choice with diners as it was a locally grown, organic product.

Augusta was naturally suited to growing abalone, he said.

"The food is there, it's the right water conditions, the right water temperature, everything is right but
it's missing that key ingredient - rocks," Mr Adams said.

"We've found that by putting rocks down there, and then putting cultured abalone on them, they grow
naturally."

Ocean Grown has developed artificial concrete 'rocks' to optimise weed flow and protect the abalone
as it grows, and will submerge 5,000 of them near a newly built marina.
Mr Adams said this method of production gave the company a number of advantages compared
with land-based abalone farming.

"We don't have power costs, we don't have any food costs, and the product is totally organic," he
said.

Page4of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."(On land) there are huge power costs, a huge capital cost to get going, quite large labour costs,
they've got a feed component to their cost."

Mr Adams said additional benefits were that the harvest could be timed to meet demand, and that
abalone could be grown to a greater length, yet still below what would was required by regulation for
the wild catch.

Ocean Grown is seeking about $5 million for commercialisation, with Rapattoni & Associates acting
as the manager.
Investors in aquaculture will be encouraged with ASX-listed Tassal Group and Clean Seas Tuna
both performing well, Mr Adams said.

RE

PUB
AN

austr : Australia | china : China | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging
Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Business News Pty Ltd
Document WABN000020141128eabs0012y

Page5of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.