Corporate: Success bidding for LED jobs in four countries

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Corporate: Success bidding for LED jobs in four countries

By Ho Wah Foon
857 words
20 October 2014
The Edge Malaysia (Weekly)
EDGEWK
English
© Copyright 2014. The Edge Communications Sdn Bhd. All rights reserved.

Success Transformer Corp Bhd (STC), the shares of which unexpectedly shot up to an intraday high of
RM2.03 recently from a year-low of RM1.15, is bidding for LED (light emitting diode) lighting projects in
Kenya, Singapore, Australia and Indonesia.
The low-profile Malaysian company, which manufactures transformers and industrial lighting products, is
confident of winning a government contract worth RM6 million to RM7.5 million in Kenya, thanks to its
track record.

“We are bidding for a LED lighting project in Kenya and tendering for government and private sector LED
projects in Singapore, Australia and Indonesia,” managing director and founder Tan Ah Ping @ Tan Ah
Bah tells The Edge.

“In Kenya, I am confident we will win a LED lighting job as for the past five years, we have been
supplying lighting products for the streets from Nairobi airport to the city area.”

This is also why Tan is unfazed by the fierce competition from Philips and other players.

Philips had collaborated with the Kenyan Urban Roads Authority in 2012 to ensure the streets of capital
city Nairobi were lit by solar-powered LED lighting. This pilot project was the first of its kind in East
Africa.

Tan says STC’s lighting solution for customers — from the design stage to manufacturing and after-sales
service — enables it to compete with local and foreign players. Products from its Sungai Buloh factory
are exported to over 40 countries, including France, Australia, the United Arab Emirates, Japan, South
Korea, India, Hong Kong and Singapore.
“As many countries are now switching to the eco-friendly and energy-saving LED lighting system, LED
will become a big market for us,” remarks the 62-year-old Tan in Mandarin.

STC, which sells its transformers and lighting products through more than 800 dealers and distributors, is
involved in highway lighting projects and supplies lights for commercial buildings, shopping complexes,
warehouses and factories.
Due to the vast business opportunities in the sector, the company may need to expand via mergers and
acquisitions (M&A) to position itself for future growth. “We are talking to some parties on M&A but
nothing has been firmed up. As the LED market is huge, we will need more funds in the future to expand
our business,” says Tan, who set up the company in 1980.

Perhaps due to the bright outlook for the LED industry and STC’s stronger financials, the previously
boring stock began to sizzle last month. It hit a record high of RM2 on Sept 25 but has since eased.

Tan insists that STC’s directors had nothing to do with the unusual activity in the stock.

A source says institutional funds could have bought STC on the open market, seeing the upside potential
of the under-researched and undervalued stock, which has been consistently trading below its net
tangible asset (NTA) value.

Page65of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.As at June 30, its NTA stood at RM2.25. Based on the stock’s closing price of RM1.71 on Oct 10 and
annualised FY2014 earnings per share of about 28 sen, STC was trading at an undemanding
price-earnings ratio of 6.2 times. It closed at RM1.74 last Thursday.
In the first six months ended June 30, 2014, STC’s net profit rose to RM16.7 million from RM13.6
million in the previous corresponding period while revenue grew 27.8% to RM189.64 million.

Last week, Tan told The Edge Financial Daily that he expected higher revenue and profit in FY2014 and
FY2015 ending Dec 31, spurred by the company’s LED lighting segment, which has grown
exponentially in recent years.

Still, investors are puzzled by filings with Bursa Malaysia that show that some STC directors and even
the founder himself have been selling the shares. Tan, who holds a 42.26% stake in STC, explains:
“Some of the directors of our subsidiaries have held the stock for years and if they see this [share price
surge] as an opportunity to cash out, we cannot blame them. As for my sale, it was a friendly and direct
deal in June and it was not on the open market.”

Moving forward, Tan says STC may revalue its assets and properties, and issue bonus shares or
warrants as a reward to loyal shareholders and to improve liquidity, as proposed by its investment
bankers. But no decisions have been made on these corporate exercises yet.

Research house UOB-Kay Hian has a “buy” recommendation on the stock, a target price of RM2.03 and
stop-loss below RM1.74 following a steep correction in the shares after their recent rally.

STC was listed on the Second Board of Bursa Malaysia in 2005 and transferred to the Main Board in
2007.
In September 2008, it was listed as one of the 13 “Best Under a Billion” Malaysian companies by Forbes
Asia magazine.

It was also one of the stocks in The Edge Media Group executive chairman Datuk Tong Kooi Ong’s
Momentum Portfolio published in The Edge Financial Daily of Oct 10.

CO
IN

RE

suctra : Success Transformer Corporation Bhd
iled : LED Technology | i3302 : Computers/Consumer Electronics | i34531 : Semiconductors | ielec :
Consumer Electronics | iindele : Industrial Electronics | iindstrls : Industrial Goods | itech : Technology |
i342 : Electrical Components/Equipment
kenya : Kenya | austr : Australia | malay : Malaysia | africaz : Africa | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies |
eafrz : East Africa | seasiaz : Southeast Asia

PUB The Edge Communications Sdn Bhd.
AN

Document EDGEWK0020141023eaak00006

Page66of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.