Seven Group swoops on troubled Nexus

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Seven Group swoops on troubled Nexus

Darren Davidson TAKEOVERS
561 words
1 April 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
17
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Kerry Stokes-controlled mining and media empire Seven Group has swooped on troubled Nexus
Energy, delivering the media mogul a major stake in the oil and gas industry.
A merger agreement will see Seven commit $400 million over several years as part of a complex
proposal that offers Nexus shareholders 2c a share.

The merger, which will require approval from 75 per cent of Nexus shareholders, marks Seven chief
operating officer Ryan Stokes’s first major deal since being elevated to the role for the group in
August 2012.

Mr Stokes worked closely with chief financial officer Richard Richards. The Nexus board, which is at
present without a chairman, has unanimously recommended the offer as the company runs out of
cash and tries to bring its only cash-generating asset back into production following an electrical fault.
Seven’s offer represents a sharp discount to the company’s last trade of 5.9c before the stock was
put in a trading suspension. Nexus is under pressure from a crippling debt burden, which will be
relieved by an immediate $40 million bridging loan from Seven to meet near-term funding
commitments.

“As we have stated previously, our strong balance sheet provides us with the ability to act on
investment opportunities in appropriate areas that diversify and broaden our portfolio, including the
gas and energy sector,” said Kerry Stokes, executive chairman of Seven Group.
“We believe the proposed acquisition of Nexus Energy is an excellent investment, provided there is
an immediate injection of the agreed major capital in the next several weeks.” The conglomerate,
which owns stakes in Seven West Media and mining services company WesTrac, flagged its
intention to expand into other sectors at last year’s annual meeting.

The group has been running the ruler over assets in the agribusiness, water, health, and wealth
management sectors, but executives believe the multiples in some areas are fully valued.

The Nexus deal, which draws on Seven Group chief executive Don Voelte’s career in the petroleum
industry, enables Seven to pursue an ongoing agenda of identifying opportunities during a down
cycle in the mining sector.

In February, Mr Voelte resigned suddenly from the Melbourne-based Nexus because of a potential
conflict of interest.
Seven insiders said the crown jewel asset in Nexus’s portfolio was a stake in the Shell-operated Crux
gas field in Western Australia’s Browse Basin.
The Stokes camp believes China and the Asia region will become more reliant on liquefied natural
gas to supply their fast- growing economies, with the proximity of a world-class mining field to these
markets placing the asset in an optimal position.

Page27of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Associates of Mr Stokes also believe in the fundamentals of the energy sector, and the move will
enable the group to create a new revenue stream beyond the core drivers in mining and media, both
of which have been under pressure in recent years.

Mr Stokes was adamant Australia would play a big role in the Asia region as a supplier of the world’s
energy needs.

Mr Stokes, who controls 67 per cent of Seven’s voting stock, is a passionate champion of Australian
expertise in the mining industries, and yesterday talked up the merits of Nexus remaining in
“Australian hands”.Shares in Seven Group gained 3c to $8.26.

entity : Nexus Energy Ltd
i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1 : Energy
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat
: Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry
News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140331ea410001i

CO
IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page28of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.