In the dark on foreign plundering of Aussie property

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
In the dark on foreign plundering of Aussie property

Jessica Marszalek
293 words
26 June 2014
Daily Telegraph
DAITEL
Telegraph
5
English
Copyright 2014 News Ltd. All Rights Reserved

PUBLIC servants admit they have no idea how many foreigners are buying Australian homes and have
to resort to trawling through newspapers and property magazines for cases.
A parliamentary review is looking into foreign ownership of residential properties following concerns
over wealthy foreigners, particularly from China, buying homes in Melbourne and Sydney.

Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) assistant statistician Paul Mahoney told the hearing information
from the Foreign Investment Review Board only listed prospective sales they had given advice on, not
actual sales.
That meant the ABS had no idea how many overseas investors were buying property. Mr Mahoney
told The Daily Telegraph after the hearing that public servants had to resort to reviewing real estate
magazines and articles to find out about real estate sales.

For example, if the Sultan of Brunei bought a beachside mansion, it would generate media interest and
tip off the ABS to record the sale.
But, while high-profile, high-value residential sales were often reported, a person buying a swath of
more modest homes would go undetected, he said.

“If Joe Bloggs, unknown multi-millionaire from Detroit, bought a number of properties across Sydney
valued at $15 million we have no way of knowing,” Mr Mahoney said.
The hearing heard the ABS would be “overjoyed” if transfer documents for property sales recorded
whether the buyer was domestic or international, and their nationality.

Treasurer Joe Hockey indicated in March he would ask the House of Representatives Economics
Committee to examine if foreign investment in real estate was being properly policed.The move follows
a report by Credit Suisse estimating Chinese investors are snapping up 18 per cent of all new
apartments and houses in Sydney.

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New
South Wales
News Ltd.
Document DAITEL0020140625ea6q00015

Page179of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.