Yancoal will pay Chinese coal tariffs

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Yancoal will pay Chinese coal tariffs

Amanda Saunders
664 words
13 October 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
23
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

NEWS - Resources - No exceptions on global levy
Chinese-owned coal companies in Australia are adamant they will not get a sweetheart deal on their
shipments to China, after Beijing slapped surprise tariffs on coal imports last week.

Chinese-owned miner Yancoal, which has seven mines in Australia and a local listing, says it will not
get a free pass on China's new global tariffs because of its ownership.

"Yancoal will pay tariffs, just like every other exporter. There is no special deal for us," Yancoal
spokesman James Rickards said.
Yanzhou Coal, China's fourth-biggest coal company, holds a 78 per cent stake in Yancoal, which
made its debut on the Australian Securities Exchange in mid-2012.
Australia's beleaguered coal industry is reeling after China's Ministry of Finance said last Thursday
that thermal coal will attract a 6 per cent import tariff, while the rate for anthracite coal and coking
coal will be set at 3 per cent.
The struggling Australian coal sector is immersed in a sea of red ink despite cutting costs for the past
two years, and is poorly placed to wear any more cost pressure.

But some of the major Australian industry players said that the tariffs are "the lesser of two evils" that
Beijing has been mulling to protect its local coal producers. The greater evil would have been a quota
on coal import volumes.

A quota would be more damaging because miners are locked into minimum shipments by their
"take-or-pay" contracts for rail and port capacity, which they have to pay regardless whether or not
they ship.

Almost all Australian coalminers have take-or-pay commitments, after racing to secure capacity in the
heady boom time of three years ago.

These contracts have created a cost trap, and for some miners it is cheaper to keep running at a loss
because the contracts would impose much greater losses on the owners if the mines were closed.
For some producers, China's new tariffs could be the straw that breaks the camel's back, pushing
losses to eclipse fixed port and rail costs, which range from about $US14 ($16.11) to $US20 a tonne.
About 13,000 jobs have been lost in the Australian coal sector in the past two years, and coal
executives have said job losses and mine closures have a few more years to run.
Coal junior Bandanna Energy collapsed late last month after coming unstuck over high costs
attached to the development of its underground thermal coal project in Queensland.

Page87of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Some of the larger Australian coalminers were not caught entirely off-guard by the new tariff, with
their market intelligence suggesting it was in the offing.

Local producers are hopeful that the 11th-hour tariffs are simply a tactic being used by Beijing in the
final weeks of Free Trade Agreement negotiations with Australia.
It is not known exactly how China hopes to leverage the tariff in negotiations, which have about
another month to run.
Minerals Council of Australiacoal boss Greg Evans also hopes the tariffs are a temporary measure
and "are dealt with in the context of the FTA negotiations in coming months".
He noted that tariffs would have to apply to all Chinese-owned coalminers outside China to comply
with the World Trade Organisation.

The federal government has said it will use the close of the free trade negotiations to push Beijing to
drop the import tariffs. The coal industry will lobby the government to push China hard on the issue.

However, much of the impact on Australian producers will not be felt for another three to four months,
when the next round of quarterly contracts, for March, are negotiated.
About a quarter of Australia's coal exports go to China, which stacks up to about 100 million tonnes
worth $9.3 billion each year, according to the Bureau of Resources and Energy Economics.

yaptyl : Yancoal Australia Limited | yankua : Yankuang (Group) Corp | ynzmn : Yanzhou Coal Mining
Co Ltd
i112 : Coal Mining Support Activities | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
gtrade : Tariffs/Trade Barriers | e512 : Physical Trade | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat :
Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gdip : International Relations | gpir :
Politics/International Relations
china : China | austr : Australia | beijin : Beijing | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020141012eaad0001t

CO

IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page88of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.