Australian Mining Equipment & Base Metals Mining Market to 2020

Australian Mining Equipment & Base Metals Mining Market to 2020

HD
WC 1,071 words
PD
21 May 2014
ET
03:00
SN
PR Newswire (U.S.)
SC
PRN
LA
English
CY
Copyright © 2014 PR Newswire Association LLC. All Rights Reserved.
LP

RnRMarketResearch.com adds "Winning and Retaining Business in the Australian
Mining Equipment Sector, 2014" & "Base Metals Mining in Australia to 2020" to
its store.

DALLAS, May 20, 2014 /PRNewswire-iReach/ -- "Winning and retaining business in the Australian mining
equipment sector -- Research Report" identifies that equipment suppliers need to retain current customers
and enhance their reputation in order to win new business. By purchasing this report you will provide
yourself with a detailed analysis of customer preferences in the Australian mining sector, which will
enable you to amend your business plans accordingly to allow maximum sales. You will gain an
understanding of the key factors driving the Australian mining, enabling you to identify the growth
opportunities and market dynamics.

TD

Logo - http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20140520/89311

Areas of analysis include:

-- Customer priorities when buying
mining equipment, with ratings of the

importance of 16 separate factors for customers when choosing mining
equipment, including cost factors, supplier attributes and product
attributes.

-- Ratings of existing suppliers across the same factors, identifying

best-performing suppliers and how well suppliers performed versus the
importance of each factor.

-- In-depth analysis of the major suppliers, namely Caterpillar, Joy Global,
Komatsu and Volvo, including their overall performance ratings and their
ratings for each of the factors relative to its importance.

-- Rankings of the leading suppliers for each equipment type, with

respondents indicating who they viewed as the top suppliers in Australia
for trucks, excavators, loaders, shovels, dozers, drills, continuous
miners, longwall systems, engines, tyres, pumps and mining software.

-- Insight into the likelihood of switching supplier and key action points

for suppliers for product and service improvements required.

Order a copy of this report at http://www.rnrmarketresearch.com/contacts/purchase?rname=178180 .

When choosing an equipment supplier, respondents rate Production reliability and quality' and the
Availability of replacement parts' as most important. However, over half of respondents feel that suppliers

Page115of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.need to improve in the latter. Overall the major suppliers perform well in terms of customer satisfaction;
however, their weakest ratings were given for two of the three most important factors for respondents.

Account managers make a significant impact in the selection process with 77% of respondents citing
Better understanding of your needs' and 81% indicating Better ability to build a long-term relationship' as
differentiating factors when choosing their current main supplier. There was a greater likelihood for
respondents to switch supplier where satisfaction was low. While on average 7% plan to switch supplier
within the next five years, this percentage is much higher for respondents whose satisfaction scores were
below average. Although most are loyal to their suppliers, customers are specifically looking for
improvements in parts availability, product quality and the ability to support cost reductions. The Report
"Winning and Retaining Business in the Australian Mining Equipment Sector, 2014" is available at
http://www.rnrmarketresearch.com/winning-and-retaining-business-in-the-australian-mining
-equipment-sector-2014-market-report.html .
"Base Metals Mining in Australia to 2020" provides historical and forecast data on base metals (copper,
nickel, zinc and lead) mine production, consumption and trade to 2020, and reserves by geographical
region. The report also includes drivers and restraints affecting the industry, profiles of major base metals
mining companies, information on the major active, exploration and development projects and regulations
governing the industry.
The Australian mining industry is of vital importance to the country's economy with a 10.1% share of its
GDP in FY 2012--13 and potential for significant employment generation. Further, substantial deposits
and geographic proximity to emerging Asian economies augur well for this mining nation. The country
produces 19 minerals in significant amounts and according to Geosciences Australia 2014, the nation is
the second largest producer of lead and zinc, the fourth largest producer of nickel and the fifth largest
producer of copper in the world, together with hosting the world's largest resources of lead, nickel and
zinc and the second largest resources of copper. In 2013, Australia's copper mine production was
966,410 tons, nickel mine production was 220,664 tons, zinc mine production was 1.6 million tons (Mt)
and lead mine production was 603,340 tons. Order a copy of this report at
http://www.rnrmarketresearch.com/contacts/purchase?rname=178307 .

The ban imposed on nickel ores and concentrates exports by the Indonesian government is likely to
benefit the Australian nickel mining industry. Australian nickel miners have been facing difficulties
because of lower nickel prices in recent years. Continued weakness in prices of base metals has started
affecting the development of planned projects in Australia. The base metal industry is facing a downturn
as commodity prices are declining and many projects are delayed due to rising input cost.
Australia had the second largest copper reserves in the world next to Chile with 86Mt or around 12.6% of
global reserves at the end of 2012, according to the United States Geological Survey (USGS). Australia's
Joint Ore Reserves Committee (JORC) compliant reserves were about 25.2Mt and EDR was 91.1Mt at
the end of 2012. Almost 90% of Australia's economic resources of nickel are located in Western Australia
followed by New South Wales (5%), Queensland (4%) and Tasmania with less than 1%. Australia is home
to the world's largest komatiite-hosted nickel sulphide and lateritic deposits. The Report "Base Metals
Mining in Australia to 2020" is available at
http://www.rnrmarketresearch.com/base-metals-mining-in-australia-to-2020-market-report.html .
Browse more reports on Mining Market at
http://www.rnrmarketresearch.com/reports/energy-power/mining .

About Us:
RnRMarketResearch.com is a database of selected syndicated market reports for global and China
industries including but not limited to life sciences, information technology & telecommunications,
consumer goods, food and beverages, energy and power, automotive and transportation, manufacturing
and construction, materials and chemicals, public sector as well as business and financial services. We
provide 24/7 online and offline support to our customers. Call +1 888 391 5441+1 888 391 5441 with your
research requirements or email the details on sales@rnrmarketresearch.com and we would be happy to
help you find the business intelligence that you need.

Media Contact: Priyank Tiwari, RnRMarketResearch, +18883915441, sales@rnrmarketresearch.com

News distributed by PR Newswire iReach: https://ireach.prnewswire.com

SOURCE iReach House Account

Web site: http://www.rnrmarketresearch.com

Page116of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

i2113 : Lead Ore/Zinc Ore Mining | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying

NS mnonfr : Non-ferrous Metals | c33 : Contracts/Orders | npress : Press Releases | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | m14 : Commodity Markets | m142 : Metals Markets | mcat :
Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion
Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
IPC NND
PUB PR Newswire Association, Inc.
AN

Document PRN0000020140520ea5k000np

Page117of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.