Rinehart pauses for 60th birthday - EXCLUSIVE -

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Finance
Rinehart pauses for 60th birthday - EXCLUSIVE -

ANDREW BURRELL, MINING
1,364 words
8 February 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
1 - All-round Country
23
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

There's no time to stop with her dream so close to reality
GINA Rinehart's long-time friend, West Australian mining identity Ron Manners, marvels at the
billionaire's work ethic and energy levels as she approaches her 60th birthday this weekend.

``Her capacity is absolutely extraordinary,'' Manners tells The Weekend Australian. ``She has to be on
top of so much. Any one sector of her life would be more than a full-time challenge for the average
person.''

Even her estranged son, John Hancock, can't help but admire his mother's tenacity.

``The reality is we are proud of the vast majority of what my mother has done, particularly towards
Australia's development and creating employment,'' Hancock says. ``My mother has shown
tremendous drive and determination.''

Sixty tomorrow, there is no time to slow down. That's because her ultimate dream -- one that has
transformed over the years into a single-minded obsession -- of owning and operating her own mine is
now tantalisingly close to reality.

Her fixation is best captured in a comment Rinehart once made to her father's biographer. ``Beauty is
not neat squares of green land, or paintings, or jewellery or artefacts, or Paris boutiques,'' the then
22-year-old said. ``Beauty is an iron ore mine.''
Work on creating Rinehart's masterpiece -- the $10 billionRoy Hill mine in Western Australia's rugged
Pilbara region -- has already begun.
South Korean giant Samsung C&T, the project's lead construction contractor, has handed out more
than $3bn in contracts at the site.

The mine is meant to start production by September next year, but Rinehart -- whose Hancock
Prospecting owns 70 per cent of the project and is the driving force behind it -- has still not secured all
of the debt finance needed to announce a final investment approval.

For the idiosyncratic Rinehart, this is the biggest prize of her career, a chance to prove to her many
doubters that she can succeed without the benefit of the tenements and royalty streams she inherited
from her father, Lang Hancock, the rogue prospector who died in 1992.

John Hancock says Roy Hill is central to the family's legacy. ``My grandfather would be absolutely
thrilled to see Roy Hill nearing production, fulfilling his dream of a Hancock mine,'' he says.

Rinehart, who despises descriptions of herself as an heiress, has been at pains to point out that
Hancock Prospecting discovered the Roy Hill tenements after Lang's death.

Page5of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.But she has not fully explained over the past 22 years why it has taken so long to have the project
approved.

Rinehart and her executives at Hancock Prospecting have consistently missed targets to bed down the
finance and move ahead with the project.

These delays have highlighted Rinehart's more cautious approach to business when compared with
entrepreneurs such as her rival, Andrew Forrest, who

Continued on Page 24

Continued from Page 23
began iron ore exports from the Pilbara in 2008, just five years after starting his own company.

A recent analysis of Roy Hill by investment bank JPMorgan suggested Roy Hill's delays in obtaining
financing meant first production was not likely to occur until mid-2016 and the mine's full production
rate would not be reached until late 2017.
Regardless of the schedule, Roy Hill will be one of the biggest mining projects undertaken in
Australia, with a new mine capable of producing 55 million tonnes of iron ore a year, a 344km railway
and a new port at Port Hedland.

``What a challenge it is,'' says Manners. ``The average person has no idea of the scale of this
operation. It's a mammoth operation and the whole state depends on it at this time. There's not a lot of
new projects coming on, and this will fill an incredibly important gap in our development over here.''

If Rinehart is planning a 60th birthday party this weekend, there was no evidence of any imminent
celebration at her Perth riverfront mansion yesterday.

When Rinehart turned 58 in 2012, she put on a lavish garden party for dozens of guests at her
Dalkeith home. Perhaps this year she is too busy.

Manners says Rinehart is working very long hours -- others say she rarely stops and is known to send
emails to colleagues in the middle of the night -- as she attempts to manage the many varied and
complicated aspects of her life. Besides the task of overseeing the final stages of Roy Hill's financing
and the start of construction, Rinehart is also passionate about promoting her vision of boosting
investment in Australia's north through lower taxes and easier access to foreign labour.
Manners, who chairs the Mannkal Foundation free-market think tank, claims other mining industry
leaders are reluctant to campaign on such causes, leaving Rinehart with no choice but to take up the
cudgels herself.
``She has taken this on by default from so many other mining executives,'' he says.

``The other guys refuse to comment or they're not fronting up to make any sort of statement -- they just
do their job and go and play golf.''

Another time-consuming task for Rinehart is the ugly and well-chronicled legal brawl with her adult
children over control of a family trust worth billions of dollars.

Her eldest son, John, and daughter Bianca have led the charge against their mother, while youngest
sister Ginia has sided with Rinehart. Another sister, New York-based Hope Welker, has pulled out of
the dispute after originally aligning with her older siblings.

Last October, John and Bianca had a significant win over their mother when Rinehart relinquished her
position as trustee of the trust, which was set up by Lang Hancock for the benefit of his grandchildren.
The case has dragged on in recent months as the family has been unable to agree on a new trustee. If
Rinehart is planning a party somewhere this weekend, it's clear John and Bianca have not been
invited.

When approached this week to reflect on his mother's life and career, Hancock was at pains to be
conciliatory, speaking of Rinehart's achievements with pride and hinting at an imminent resolution to
the internecine brawl that has made headlines around the world.

The case returns to court in Sydney next week, but Hancock will not be drawn on whether a settlement
may be finalised then.

Page6of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.``The matters of conflict are complicated and borne of a tough era for our family -- we all look forward
to drawing a line and putting it in the past,'' Hancock says.

``Hopefully, nearly there.''

GINA RINEHART AT 60: MILESTONES

1954 Gina Hancock born in Perth to Lang Hancock and wife Hope Margaret Nicholas

1973 Gina marries Greg Hayward; they have 2 children, John and Bianca

1981 Gina and Hayward divorce

1982 Gina marries Frank Rinehart; they have 2 children, Hope and Ginia

1990 Frank Rinehart dies

1992 Lang Hancock dies; Rinehart assumes chairmanship of Hancock Prospecting

1993 Exploration commences at Hope Downs; exploration tenements granted for Roy Hill

1992 Rinehart sues former stepmother Rose Porteous over Lang's death and his estate

2003 Coroner finds Lang died naturally; litigation with Porteous settled

2005 Hancock Prospecting enters 50:50 joint venture with Rio Tinto to develop Hope Downs mine
2008 Hope Downs begins exporting iron ore

2010 Rinehart invests in Ten Network
2011 Rinehart sells Queensland coal assets to India's GVK for $1.1 billion

2011 Three of Rinehart's four children sue her over family trust
2012 Japan's Marubeni, South Korea's Posco and Taiwan's China Steel Corp acquire a combined 30
per cent stake in Roy Hill, with Hancock Prospecting retaining 70 per cent.

2012 Rinehart invests in Fairfax Media

2012 Rinehart's wealth peaks at $29bn, according to BRW, making her the richest woman in the world
at the time

2013 Roy Hill begins signing up lenders to finance the $10bn Roy Hill project, expected to be
producing iron ore by September 2015

2014 Rinehart turns 60; legal battle with over family trust returns to court, with settlement expected

IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

i211 : Metal Ore Mining | imet : Mining/Quarrying | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | reqrmm : Suggested Reading Metals/Mining | redit : Selection of Top
Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140207ea2800025

Page7of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.