Treasury in value pitch

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Treasury in value pitch

Sean Smith
366 words
26 June 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
Second
51
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

Treasury Wine Estates has underlined its change of strategy by isolating its top-end labels as part
of a widening restructure including changes to its iconic Penfolds stable.

Along with pushing back the release date for new Penfolds vintages, including Grange, the world’s
biggest listed wine company also revealed its premium, more profitable Australian wines would
now be managed separately from its cheaper commercial wine brands.

The move is consistent with new chief executive Michael Clarke’s commitment to refocus TWE on
its more profitable, high-end brands such as Penfolds, as a key plank of his strategy to improve the
group’s disappointing financial performance.

Mr Clarke said the restructure recognised that marketing less expensive, commercial wines and
premium brands was “markedly different”.

“We need to consider new operating models and ways of working to realise growth and improve
profitability across both,” said Mr Clarke, who took TWE’s reins in April.
The group believes changing the annual release date for its highly profitable Penfolds labels to
mid-October from May will give it a longer run at selling more of the wines into important holiday
periods such as Thanksgiving in the US, Christmas and Chinese New Year.
Mr Clarke said the change would also enable the company to do away with the hectic rush to
deliver Penfolds before the end of its June 30 financial year and allow Penfolds’ winemakers to
concentrate on the current year’s vintage in February and March.
TWE flagged a further financial hit, saying it would book $260 million in after-tax impairments in its
annual results.

The impairments reflect the excessive prices paid for some TWE brands before it was spun off by
Foster’s as well as falling growth rates for commercial wine.

Mr Clarke said it highlighted the need for TWE “to do things differently” and get value from its
brands.

TWE has been in the spotlight, not only because of Mr Clarke’s restructure but its recent rejection of
a $4.70-a-share takeover proposal from private equity giant Kohlberg Kravis Roberts.

Investors warmed to yesterday’s update, marking TWE shares up 24¢ to $5.07.

CO
IN

trzwn : Treasury Wine Estates Ltd
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i426 : Wine | ialco : Alcoholic Beverages/Drinks | ibevrge :
Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods

Page155of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

RE
PUB
AN

ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gwine : Wine | gcat : Political/General News | gfod : Food/Drink |
glife : Living/Lifestyle | gwbs : Wine/Beer/Spirits
waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document TWAU000020140625ea6q0004g

Page156of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.