AUSTRALIA's 2500 wine companies have come up with a

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Agribusiness
AUSTRALIA's 2500 wine companies have come up with a

487 words
2 January 2014
Stock and Land
FSTOCL
10
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

AUSTRALIA's 2500 wine companies have come up with a plan to stop a big profits slide.

Winemakers' Federation of Australia (WFA) president Tony D'Aloisio has outlined measures to
improve the profitability of the industry, which has been hit hard by a strong dollar that hurts exporters,
tough negotiations with big retailers and an oversupply of grapes that has finally started to diminish.

The WFA said the total value of the industry in 2007 was $5 billion and it shrank by 13 per cent to
$4.4b by 2012, and profit margins dropped an estimated 38pc.
About 70pc of Australia's wine grape production is uneconomical, according to the WFA.
It is concerned about the uphill battle that small and medium wine companies have in negotiations with
Coles and Woolworths to get their products on the shelves.
It wants a code of conduct covering the treatment of wine companies in their supply negotiations
similar to the one signed by big supermarket chains with grocery manufacturers.

Coles and Woolworths said they would resist a code governing their relationship with winemakers.

Vineyard areas expanded in Australia from 96,000 hectares in 1999 to a peak of 157,000ha in 2008
because of tax incentives on managed investment schemes and over-zealous planting by companies
chasing overseas sales supported at the time by a lower dollar.
The WFA proposes a more concerted drive to increase demand for Australian wine around the world,
get more equal access to big markets such as China through tariff cuts, and strip away $25 million in
tax rebates that 205 New Zealand wine companies selling into Australia have been able to share in,
under a Wine Equalisation Tax rebate scheme.
It wants clear labelling of private-label wines sold by Woolworths and Coles so that buyers know they
are supermarket house brands.

Mr D'Aloisio, a former chairman of the Australian Securities and Investments Commission, said the
code signed by grocery manufacturers with Woolworths and Coles last month was a good approach to
follow and wine companies will push hard for a similar code to be implemented by mid-2014.

He said there were three main ways to increase profits: "It's growing the demand, keeping watch on
the grape supply and providing for a much greater level playing field from the retailers."

Mr D'Aloisio said having a vine-pull scheme was "too heavy-handed" and market forces had put grape
supply back into balance.
A Coles spokesman said the company, which is owned by Wesfarmers, would rather wine companies
became part of the code of conduct with grocery manufacturers.

"Our preference is for one code of conduct,'' he said.

Page83of210©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Woolworths said while it wouldn't rule it out entirely, it didn't see the need for a new code.

- SIMON EVANS

IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

i01001 : Farming | i0 : Agriculture | i426 : Wine | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | ialco : Alcoholic
Beverages/Drinks | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | saustr : South Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FSTOCL0020140101ea120000h

Page84of210©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.