REA shares hit record as profits jump 37%

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
REA shares hit record as profits jump 37%

Madeleine Heffernan
421 words
5 February 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
24
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Property

Shares in REA Group have reached a record high after the real estate classified company
exceeded analyst expectations in the six months to December, driven by growth in more expensive
advertising for residential property.

Morgans analyst Ivor Ries told BusinessDay the result was "clearly above what the market was
expecting" and despite challenges in its overseas business, notably Hong Kong, "the market is just
so excited about what they're doing with revenue in Australia".

REA, owner of market-leading portals realestate.com.au and realcommercial.com.au, is switching
from a reliance on subscription fees from real estate agents to selling premium advertising slots.

Revenue from these "depth" products grew by 67 per cent, a result Mr Ries said was "well in
advance of what the market was looking for".
The company did not provide guidance on who would replace its chief executive, Greg Ellis.

CCZ Statton Equities analyst Roger Colman said he held little hope for shareholders seeking
generous dividends or big acquisitions in the short term.

"REA has got an illogical balance sheet with current [low] interest rates," he said .
REA has made a couple of small purchases in the past few months - the $15 million purchase of
online rental application service 1Form.com, and Italian property site Attico - but its growth over the
years has been largely organic.

Shares in REA rose 5 per cent on Tuesday to $43.78, taking its year-to-date rise to just under 16
per cent and defying the worst day on the sharemarket in six months. REA was similarly a star
performer in 2013, despite news Mr Ellis and chief financial officer Jenny Macdonald would depart.

REA reported a 37 per cent rise in net profit to $70.7 million for the six months to December 31.
Annual revenue grew by 30 per cent to $209.4 million, and earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortisation rose by 38 per cent to $106.8 million - about in line with
Commonwealth Bank forecasts.

Analyst Mark McDonnell of BBY said REA's results were impressive. "The question is, how long will
that be sustained?"
REA's offshore operations - in Italy, Luxembourg, Germany, France and Hong Kong - comprise just
10 per cent of revenue.
The company did not say when it would replace Mr Ellis, but chairman Hamish McLennan - also the
chief executive of Network Ten - told analysts he was very pleased with the calibre of candidates.

Page169of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CO
IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

rlesta : REA Group Limited | newsli : News Limited | nnewz : News Corp
i834 : Real Estate Agents/Brokers | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ireest : Real Estate
c1522 : Share Price Movement/Disruptions | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News |
ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry
News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020140204ea250001y

Page170of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.