Immigrants eye agribusiness

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Immigrants eye agribusiness

MAGGIE LU YUEYANG
303 words
26 July 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
35
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

investing: Wealthy immigrants under Australia’s significant investor visa (SIV) program are keen to
diversify their investments in the country, with an increasing interest being shown in agriculture,
Morgan Stanley Wealth Management vice-president Stephane Cooper told Data Room.

Morgan Stanley is among the banks that have tapped into this lucrative market since the government
introduced the visa program late in 2012.

The bank has worked on 20 per cent of the 290 or so applicants approved so far. There are about
1000 applications outstanding, and Mr Cooper expected to see an increase in the pipeline with a ripple
effect from successful applicants.

“We are actually seeing families come in. The first person gets in, and then mum or dad might apply.
We are now having families come through with us,” he said. “They will start with $5 million and as
they become comfortable, after they spend time in Australia, they will start to diversify,” he said. “We
know our clients are very keenly looking at agriculture, very keenly actually — looking to acquire
businesses and looking to expand businesses as well.
“We have helped clients that have been interested in, say, dairy farms.” Cooper said the clients were
worth $15m-$20m on average, and were looking to invest more in Australia once they became
comfortable with the business environment.

Morgan Stanley expects to see $300m invested through its program by the end of next month, with
each applicant committed to investing at least $5m.

“First and foremost it is a safe haven, that is a priority,” he said.The pace of visa approvals has
accelerated since the Coalition came to power. Chinese nationals account for most of the bank’s
clients, but it is also looking to other countries including India, Malaysia, Singapore and the UAE.

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

dwitd : Morgan Stanley
iwealth : Private Banking/Wealth Management | i814 : Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | ibnk :
Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities | i83101 : Investment Banking
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140725ea7q000c4

Page248of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.