REA rides property wave to earnings hike

SE
HD
BY
CR
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Finance
REA rides property wave to earnings hike

NICK LEYS, MEDIA
ADDITIONAL REPORTING: AAP
413 words
5 February 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
1 - All-round Country
19
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

REAL ESTATE companyREA Group has consolidated its position as the leading property listings
company with a 37 per cent jump in profits.
As the company prepares to farewell outgoing chief executive Greg Ellis, its impressive half-year
results follow a boom in both domestic commercial and residential markets and strong growth in its
overseas assets in Italy and Hong Kong.

REA Group, owner of realestate.com.au and realcommercial.com.au, boasted a net profit of $70.7
million for the first half , compared with $51.6m for the previous year. Revenues improved 38 per cent
on the previous year, reaching $106.8m. Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation
of $111.8m were a 44 per cent increase from $77.5m previously.
REA Group chairman Hamish McLennan said it was a sensational result. ``On every measure they
have delivered outstanding results. We have a very deep bench from a management point of view.
Our strategy is very focused; we've been consistently delivering against that. (And) in Australia we
have continued to reinforce our leadership position in this market and our No 1 position.''
Mr Ellis, who will reportedly take the top role at German online advertising companyScout24, has a
six-month notice period.

Mr McLennan said of the process to find a replacement: ``We have plans in place, we are
interviewing candidates and we are extremely happy with the calibre of candidates we are looking at.''

He described Mr Ellis as a ``world class player''.

``I want to thank him for a fine innings over the years. He goes with our best wishes.''
Mr Ellis said he was privileged to have led the company.

Mr Ellis said he believed the Italian business would eventually grow, despite the current challenging
economic conditions.

``You've got material economic conditions that are not positive to running companies at the moment,''
he said.

``We don't see it as a medium to long-term environment. We see it to a short to medium-term issue.
We think it's still a good market.''

Its Australian operations performed strongly, with 30 per cent revenue growth in the half year, as
strong demand drove home prices higher and encouraged visits to REA's websites. ``Sydney is the
most competitive market we have,'' Mr Ellis said.

Page179of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The company plans to launch a Chinese website for Chinese customers looking to buy Australian
properties.

CO
IN
NS
RE
PUB
AN

rlesta : REA Group Limited | newsli : News Limited | nnewz : News Corp
i834 : Real Estate Agents/Brokers | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ireest : Real Estate
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140204ea250004z

Page180of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.