Eager investors snap up Canberra House redevelopment

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Eager investors snap up Canberra House redevelopment

By Meredith Clisby Domain Editor
428 words
2 July 2014
Canberra Times
CANBTZ
A002
English
(c) 2014 The Canberra Times

Eager investors snap up Canberra House redevelopment

By Meredith Clisby Domain Editor

STRONG INTEREST: The Mayfair apartments officially hit the market on Saturday but 45 units have
already been sold.
The residential development set to replace Canberra House attracted almost 50 buyers before the
apartments even hit the market. The Mayfair apartments, in a 16-storey, 191-unit complex, are soon to
be built on the corner of West Row and Alinga Street in the city. The development application for the
project, which includes the demolition of the Canberra Club annex, was recently approved by the ACT
Planning and Land Authority. The Morris Property Group project will officially hit the market on Saturday
with about 45 apartments already sold. There will be 48 one-bedroom apartments, 126 two-bedroom and
17 three-bedroom apartments. Prices range from $375,900 to
$1,079,900. Morris Property Group Canberra director Louise Morris said the project had been well
received, which was a testament to the fact that people wanted to live and work in the city. The
developers may have become
one of the first companies in the ACT to remove the fourth level of an apartment building. Ms Morris said
the developers had learnt the number four was considered unlucky in Chinese culture as it meant death.
She said they were
not targeting Chinese buyers particularly but trying to make the complex attractive to as diverse a market
as possible. ï¿½In that spirit, we've omitted the fourth floor,ï¿½ Ms Morris said. The developers of what
will be the
tallest residential tower in Sydney have removed all levels and apartment numbers containing the
number. Colliers Internationalresidential project marketing director Derek Whitcombe said there had
been a

mix of buyers for the Mayfair apartments, including first home buyers, downsizers and investors. He said
the three-bedroom apartments would be the most attractive to downsizers looking to live close to
amenities. Mr Whitcombe said there was always an expectation of high sales in well-located quality
developments. The Mayfair apartments will include ground-floor retail, an arcade, a three-storey
above-ground car park and a 12-storey residential component. The complex will have a podium- level
courtyard and a gymnasium. Demolition work is expected to begin soon and construction is anticipated to
start early next year. The Canberra House office tower and basement will be retained. The display suite,
which will be launched on Friday, will be open seven days a week from Saturday.

RF
CO
RE

58046148
actpld : ACT Planning and Land Authority
auscap : Australian Capital Territory | austr : Australia | canbrr : Canberra | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania

Page67of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB Federal Capital Press of Australia Pty Ltd
AN

Document CANBTZ0020140701ea7200013

Page68of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.