Melbourne office secures a record $1.45 million from Chinese legal firm buyer

HD Melbourne office secures a record $1.45 million from Chinese legal firm buyer
WC 241 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

5 February 2014
Property Observer
PMPROP
English
Copyright 2014 Private Media Partners Pty Ltd

A Sydney-based Chinese legal firm has purchased an entire floor strata office in Melbourne’s CBD legal
precinct for $1.45 million, setting a building record.

The 14-level strata office building, 256 Queen Street, between Lonsdale and Little Lonsdale Street is in
the heart of Melbourne’s legal precinct.

TD

Photo: 256 Queen Street, Melbourne
The CBRE city sales team, Tom Tuxworth, Chris Pharr and Ed Wright, sold the property on behalf of a
local investor.

Senior manager at CBRE, Tuxworth, said that the office space was 288 square metres, putting the price
at just over $5,000 per square metre. It is an unrefurbished space.

“Owners of strata office floors are now being alerted to the unprecedented pent up demand for owner
occupiers to purchase and operate out of their own office floor as opposed to re-leasing in what is
considered a soft leasing market,” said Tuxworth

“Activity within the Melbourne CBD strata office market has been exceptionally high over the past five
months with offshore groups now joining mum and dad self-managed super fund (SMSF) investors in
purchasing commercial office space.”

He said that the current low interest rate environment, along with depreciation and tax benefits, have
made this type of property highly sought after in recent times.

The building is halfway between Melbourne Central and Flagstaff stations.

jduke@propertyobserver.com.au 

NS
RE

greest : Real Estate/Property | gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | china : China | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific |
asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

PUB Private Media Partners Pty Ltd.
AN

Document PMPROP0020140205ea2500006

Page173of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.