1pc of foreign home sales examined

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

TheNation
1pc of foreign home sales examined

EXCLUSIVE: Rick Wallace, Annabel Hepworth
491 words
26 July 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
6
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

AUSTRALIA’s investment authorities are investigating a fraction of the more than 5000 foreign
purchases of established homes over the past nine months despite widespread concern that current
regulations are either inadequately enforced or widely flouted.
Treasury says it is investigating 33 cases where a foreigner has purchased an established home —
which is banned in all but a narrow range of circumstances — including several “high value”
purchases.

The figure amounts to less than 1 per cent of the more than 5000 foreign purchases of established
homes since March.
It is unlikely to alleviate the pressure on the Foreign Investment Review Board from MPs and renters
to boost its lax enforcement efforts amid soaring real estate prices.

The Australian revealed recently that the FIRB, which sits within Treasury, has not prosecuted a
single foreign investor for an illegal purchase since 2010.

Treasury’s submission in response to a committee of MPs pushing for better enforcement of FIRB
rules cites three examples of prosecutions it has led, but the most recent case date back to 2006.
The issue of foreigners, in many cases, wealthy Chinese investors, sidestepping FIRB regulations to
buy established property is driving a backlash from would-be buyers priced out of city markets.

The FIRB has come under pressure from the House of Representatives economics committee chair,
Liberal MP Kelly O’Dwyer, and other MPs on the inquiry into foreign investment in real estate over its
lax oversight.

In response to questions from the MPs, the Treasury said it “is currently investigating the acquisition
of foreign interests in 33 residential real estate properties”.
“All of these properties are in the established residential category, with a small number involving very
high value established purchases.

“In most instances the investigation activity involves the need to establish the identity of the relevant
investor and to assess their eligibility to own the property in question.” The only situation in which
foreigners can purchase established homes here is if they are temporarily residing in Australia, and
even then, the property must be sold within three months of the buyer returning to their homeland.
As The Australian has revealed this loophole is being exploited by wealthy foreigners looking to park
cash in the Australian housing market. In many cases they are using their children studying in
Australia, or lawyers or other service providers, as investor proxies.

Page251of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The latest figures from the FIRB show that foreign investors have doubled their purchases of
Australian property in just one year with 5755 homes worth $5.5 billion bought in the nine months to
March alone.
More than 100 agencies are active in China openly marketing Australian established housing even
though would-be buyers would almost certainly be breaking the law.Until recently, the lack of
compliance has been largely ignored, but media interest and rising prices have increased the
pressure on MPs to act on these practices.

NS

RE
PUB
AN

ehsal : Housing Sales | ereal : Real Estate Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e1121 :
Home Sales/Housing Affordability | ecat : Economic News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140725ea7q0009v

Page252of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.