ICP Acquires Major Tiaro Stake

ICP Acquires Major Tiaro Stake

HD
WC 874 words
PD
2 July 2014
SN
ENP Newswire
SC
ENPNEW
LA
English
CY
(c) 2014, Electronic News Publishing. All Rights Reserved.
LP

TD

Release date - 01072014
ICP Ltd. (SGX: ICP), a company listed on the Catalist board of the Singapore Exchange Securities
Trading Limited, through its wholly owned subsidiary, AceA Resources Pte Ltd, has acquired 22.6 million
shares, representing a 19.9% equity interest in Tiaro Coal Limited.

The shares were purchased from Hudson Resources Limited (ASX: HRS).
The consideration for the acquisition was A$3,051,000 or 13.5 cents a share.
Mr Mick Aw, Chairman of ICP, explained the rationale for the acquisition, ‘This significant position in
Tiaro Coal is based on our evaluation of various potential business opportunities based on the specific
merits of each available deal. The acquisition is in line with ICP’s strategy to capitalise on viable
business opportunities, which can enhance ICP’s shareholders’ value.
‘ICP regards the acquisition as an opportunity to participate in the Australia coal exploration and mining
industry and considers Tiaro Coal a compelling investment. ‘The acquisition will also be a catalyst for a
strategic relationship with China Qinfa Group Limited (Qinfa), a group that has coal trading and coal
mining assets in China, which may bring further opportunities in the development of coal resources
across Asia and Australia.’
Dan Buckley, Tiaro Coal’s Managing Director welcomes ICP’s entry into Tiaro Coal, ‘We are heartened
by the confidence shown by ICP. We are confident that with such formidable support, Tiaro Coal will be
able to move forward with its plans to develop a viable coking-PCI coal mine in Queensland.’
ICP and Qinfa are both significant holders of Tiaro Coal’s subsidiary Paragon Coal Pty Ltd (Paragon
Coal).
Tiaro Coal holds a 47.6% interest in Paragon Coal, which owns EPC 956 and EPC 957 in the
Maryborough Basin in SE Queensland. Qinfa and ICP hold 40.5% and 11.9% of Paragon Coal
respectively.
Paragon Coal recently commenced a Pre-Feasibility Study1 on the T9 West Area located within the
northern portion of EPC 956. The T9 West Area includes 87MT Coal Resource (Measured - 4MT;
Indicated - 21MT; Inferred - 63MT).

Contact:

ICP Ltd.

Dan Buckley Managing Director Tel: +61 2 9251 7177

Henry Kinstlinger Investor Relations Tel: +61 2 9251 7177

TIARO’S BUSINESS OBJECTIVES
MARYBOROUGH COAL BASIN

Page39of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.To undertake exploration for coal deposits with the potential to produce metallurgical (coking, PCI) and
thermal coal.
Two Coal Measures in Maryborough Coal Basin:
Tiaro Coal Measures
Burrum Coal Measures

Large exploration area with 9 granted tenements - 2,013 km2 and 3 tenements - 930 km2 under
application
To develop coal mining operations

Key activities will be:
Coal mine investment / development in partnership with coal end users, infrastructure developers and
logistics managers
Coal mine management
Coal production, logistics management and market placement
Position Tiaro as a coal exploration mine development company, working with shareholders and partners
on coal projects in the Maryborough Basin
Paragon Coal is the first such partnership, developing Tiaro’s initial coal project

BUSINESS COLLABORATION
Paragon Coal (Tiaro 47.6%) established to explore and develop resources within EPCs 956 & EPC 957

87 Mt Resource reported in accordance to JORC Code (2012) on T9 West Area
Conceptual in nature Exploration Target of 200 - 300 million tonnes in Tiaro Coal Measures

The potential quantity and grade of exploration targets is conceptual in nature. Other than the declared
JORC Resources, there has been insufficient exploration to define a further Mineral Resource and it is
uncertain if further exploration will result in the determination of further Mineral Resources.

Metallurgical (Coking & PCI) coals
CM Basin Holdings Limited (Tiaro 55%) holds 20% interest in the Anggana Coal Project in East
Kalimantan, Indonesia
Anggana Coal Project includes an established thermal coal mine (Bara Naga open cut) and three further
nearby coal concessions

The CMH investment intended to generate dividends to Tiaro which are to be employed in Maryborough
Coal Basin exploration and project development

DIVESTMENTS

Galilee Basin
29.2% indirect interest in the Clyde Park Project with Guildford Coal Limited (ASX: GUF)

677Mt Inferred JORC Resource

Clarence - Moreton Basin
55% Interest in Clarence-Moreton Basin Project with CM Basin Coal Holdings Limited
West of Blair Athol & Clermont coal mines

50% interest in EPC 1262
Paragon Coal Exploration Targets

Mr Rebek consents to the inclusion in the report of the matters based on information in the form and
context in which it appears Galilee Basin Project

Page40of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Please refer to ASX announcement by Guildford Coal Limited (ASX: GUF) dated 18 February 2013. The
information is extracted from the report entitled ‘Mongolia and Queensland Update’ created 8th February
2013 and is available to view on www.guildfordcoal.com.au/investors/asx-announcements.
The company confirms that it is not aware of any new information or data that materially affects the
information included in the original market announcement and, in the case of estimates of Mineral
Resources or Ore Reserves that all material assumptions and technical parameters underpinning the
estimates in the relevant market announcement continue to apply and have not materially changed. The
company confirms that the form and context in which the Competent Person’s findings are presented
have not been materially modified from the original market announcement.

[Editorial queries for this story should be sent to newswire@enpublishing.co.uk]

CO gocoi : ICP Limited | malhol : Hudson Resources Ltd | tiarco : Tiaro Coal Limited
IN

i1 : Energy | i111 : Coal Mining | i231 : Non-metallic Mineral Mining/Quarrying | i8396 : Diversified Holding
Companies | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | imet :
Mining/Quarrying
c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | npress : Press Releases | cacqu :
Acquisitions | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

NS

RE
PUB Electronic News Publishing Ltd.
AN

Document ENPNEW0020140702ea7200032

Page41of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.