FED:AAP Finance Briefs, Thursday, November 20

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

FED:AAP Finance Briefs, Thursday, November 20

503 words
20 November 2014
Australian Associated Press Financial News Wire
AAPFIN
English
(c) 2014 Australian Associated Press Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved

FINANCE NINE REJECTS SALE SPECULATION

SYDNEY - Media group Nine Entertainment has rejected speculation it is considering selling its
Ticketek and Allphones businesses.

News Corporation reported Nine was working with investment bank UBS on selling its live events
ticketing business and its rights to manage Sydney's Allphones Arena in a deal worth about $360
million.

But Nine rejected the claims.

"NEC advises that it has no intention of selling these businesses and that it has not engaged advisers
to conduct a sale process," it said in a statement.

AAP bt/cdh

CSIRO CHIEF JOINS RIO TINTO BOARD
SYDNEY - Outgoing CSIRO chief executive Dr Megan Clark has joined mining giant Rio Tinto's board.

Dr Clark, who has led the CSIRO since 2009, took up a position as non-executive director on Thursday.
Chairman Jan du Plessis said Dr Clark had extensive mining experience, having previously worked for
Western Mining Corporation and BHP Billiton before joining the CSIRO.

Dr Clark was due to leave the CSIRO in December, though Rio Tinto said she would step down from
that position immediately.
COAL MINER NEW HOPE LIFTS PROFIT

SYDNEY - Higher sales and lower costs have helped to deliver a rise in quarterly profit for Queensland
coal miner New Hope.
The company sold seven per cent more coal in the three months to October than in the same period
last year, while administration and operating costs were significantly lower, chairman Robert Milliner
told New Hope's annual general meeting.

Unaudited profit for the quarter was up on the same period last financial year, he said.
New Hope's coal sales were flat in the 2013/14 year, and its profit fell 21 per cent to $58 million.

Its shares gained x cents to $2.x.
Thermal coal prices have been falling since 2011 as supply grew and China's demand softened, and
chief executive Shane Stephan said an oversupply will remain for some time.

But low prices are causing change in the industry, and the long term future for domestic exports
remains solid, he said.

AAP dmc/gfr

Page139of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.MINING SLUMP HITS MONADELPHOUS REVENUE

SYDNEY - Engineering giant Monadelphous says revenue is still falling as miners cut costs and the
number of development projects shrinks.

Revenue is expected to drop by around 15 to 20 per cent in the first half of the current financial year,
compared to the previous year's $1.29 billion first six months, managing director Rob Velletri said.

Full year sales revenue will depend on new contract awards and project timing, he said.
"Market conditions in mining and minerals continue to be challenging as customers drive down capital
and operating costs," Mr Velletri told the company's annual general meeting.

Monadelphous suffered an 11 per cent fall in sales revenue in the 2013/14 year, after two years of
growth of more than 80 per cent.
Its annual profit dropped six per cent to $146.5 million.

Monadelphous shares gained x cents to $x.

AAP dmc/cdh

CO
IN

RE
PUB
AN

wstmn : Alumina Ltd | pblbme : Nine Entertainment Co.
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imed : Media/Entertainment | imet :
Mining/Quarrying
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Australian Associated Press Pty Ltd
Document AAPFIN0020141120eabk00108

Page140of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.