Risk versus grand complacency

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News - Opinion
Risk versus grand complacency

945 words
21 August 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
2
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Jennifer Hewett

Glenn Stevens is still on the hunt for "animal spirits" of the sort that will encourage more businesses to
take the risk to invest and expand, as opposed to businesses keeping such plans in the top drawer or
returning capital to shareholders.

But he does point out the other big contradiction apparent globally as well as in Australia. The
reluctance to take risks by investing in the "real economy" is not matched by any such investor
hesitation when it comes to risk appetite in the financial markets.

Instead, it's more like grand global complacency. There's certainly no pricing for anything going wrong,
no real compensation for added risk. Each geopolitical shock or financial event that might have been
expected to cause severe stockburn among investors is shrugged off.
So spreads on investment-grade and corporate bonds are at multi-year lows and in Europe, yields on
sovereign bonds in even the "peripheral" countries have fallen dramatically. Yet it's not as if the
situation in Europe has improved or risks diminished.

Right on cue, the Australian sharemarket closed on a six-year high despite a marked lack of
enthusiasm for BHP Billiton shares in the wake of its demerger plans and lack of any share buyback
announcement.

How long this disconnect between market and "real economy" risk taking can last globally is unclear.
The warning signs may be obvious but, so far, no typical response.

At one of his regular appearances before the House of Representatives economics committee, the
Reserve Bank governor didn't attempt to debate the reasons for what he calls these "remarkable
trends", merely the results. The cost of borrowing is extremely low – if still higher in Australia than most
other countries – yet the demand for credit remains relatively modest.

"I've allowed the horse to come to the water of cheap funding but I can't make it drink," he declared. "I
don't think interest rates are the answer at the moment."

Not that Stevens is suggesting he has the answer for an Australian economy in the grip of these global
forces as well as a major reduction in mining investment, which did so much to underpin growth over
the past several years.

Forecasting, he says, is always an imprecise art and, given the unusual circumstances globally and
domestically, likely to be even less reliable now.

But with that major caveat, Stevens expects domestic economic growth to stay at 2 per cent to 3 per
cent over the next year, meaning any "sustained reduction in unemployment" will take a while yet. At
some point, he says, this below-trend growth should change given other forces at work, such as
continuing low funding costs, increasing net worth of households, productivity improvements, gross

Page72of343©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.investment in some sectors barely above depreciation, growth in population, demand for services and
the dynamic of proximity to Asia.

"If these responses start to gather pace, the sorts of forecasts we are setting out at the moment will
very likely prove conservative," he says. "The frustrating thing is that no one can say when that will
happen or just what might be the proximate trigger."

And no one would be more frustrated at that reality than Joe Hockey as he struggles to boost
confidence in a business community increasingly alarmed about how the government is handling itself.

At least out in the real economy, it's far from gloom and doom as companies announce their annual
results. Wesfarmer's Richard Goyder went out of his way to challenge any continuation of the "negative
narrative", saying retail sales in recent weeks had been stronger than a few months ago. That's even if
Target's performance is disappointing.

"We are not seeing anything in our retail businesses suggesting that the economy is on the slide,' he
said. "Instead, there are significant positive signs."

Wesfarmers, which is also owner of well performing Coles, Kmart, Office Works and Bunnings, clearly
gets a good read on consumer behaviour. Goyder is also dismissive of the argument the budget has a
big impact on spending, saying any slowing in May and June was more likely due to unseasonably
warm weather.

Instead, he cites jobs as the key factor and notes most people have also not seen any reduction in their
take-home pay post the budget. So if they are confident about keeping their jobs, they will continue to
spend on retail. That's a big if, given the latest unemployment statistics, but it reflects a mood of steady
caution rather than any sense of panic.
Wesfarmers is also following the Stevens scenario by announcing it would return $1.1 billion to
shareholders and pay a special dividend of 10¢ as well as its final dividend of $1.05 a share. But
Goyder says it's all a question of balance and that the company has a strong balance sheet and the
capacity to invest in opportunities "as and when they arise".
From its more China-focused perspective, Fortescue Metals Group produced what chief executive Nev
Power was delighted to call "an outstanding set of results", including profits up 56 per cent. It's a
reminder to all the sceptics about the impact of a lower iron ore price on Australian producers. The key
to the FMG numbers is a massive increase in volume to 155 million tonnes a year along with a 23 per
cent decrease in costs as capital expenditure decreases and greater efficiencies and savings cut in.
But Power also insists China's growth will continue to be strongly robust. It won't just be FMG
shareholders hoping he's right.

NS

RE
PUB
AN

nedc : Commentaries/Opinions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive
News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140820ea8l00066

Page73of343©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.