Sustainable green revolution our key to help feed world

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Sustainable green revolution our key to help feed world

ANTHONY PRATT, COMMENT
933 words
16 April 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
22
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Australia has the potential to provide for 200 million people

HELPING to feed a hungry world is Australia’s greatest humanitarian responsibility and its greatest
business opportunity in the 21st century.

For both to happen we’ll need “sustainable intensification”. At its core, this is a framework for growing
more food on the same or smaller land footprint, while ensuring we care for the environment.

I am convinced that Australian innovation and a new approach to holistic land management can
deliver a significant boost in food and fibre production. In fact, our proximity to Asia’s burgeoning
populations and markets — where many hundreds of millions still live in poverty — places special
obligations on us.

Potentially, Australia could produce enough high-quality nutritious food directly to feed 200 million
people, most of them within our region. And by exporting our expertise and know-how, we could
indirectly help to feed a billion.
I simply don’t buy the argument that a small population means we can’t innovate and excel at
high-value food manufacturing. Especially when those new market opportunities are in our
neighbourhood.
Just last month, for example, the Economist Intelligence Unit predicted that by 2030, China could be
importing 59 per cent of all of Australia’s food exports. That’s up from just 12 per cent in 2007. In the
longer term, the value of Australia’s agricultural exports, as outlined in the Greener Pastures report in
2012, could rise to $1.7 trillion by 2050.

But to win this new prize, not just dream about it, we have to create “a new and sustainable green
revolution”.

How?

In the classic 1960s movie, The Graduate, a very young Dustin Hoffman plays Benjamin, a university
graduate. And at his celebratory party, a family friend says to him: “I just want to say one word to you
... Just one word. Plastics.” That was in 1967. In 2014 the one word I want to say to Australia’s
universities and their graduates is “innovation”. Australia’s future depends on how we think about
innovation, how we encourage it, and how we invest more heavily in it.

Innovation does not depend on governments, although governments can provide the policy settings
within which it flourishes. Nor does it depend on universities, although Australian universities have to
become more entrepreneurial about it.

Ultimately, innovation depends on the people with advanced skills who have the ideas, and on the
business risk-takers willing to back them.

Page92of259©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.When it comes to advanced skills, however, Australia lags in attracting students to agricultural
science, research in food production and supply chains, new technologies, and productive land
management skills.

This is where the unis have to work more closely with government, agribusiness, and the
manufacturing sector to make collaborative innovation a reality. And to explain how collaborative
innovation might work, I offer six headline ideas.

1. New partnerships across diverse disciplines. Strauss, the Israel-based food and beverage
company, has developed Alpha Strauss, a methodology for scanning the myriad research interests,
findings and reports from unis, companies and government bodies.

Then it maps intersections that can deliver new products and solutions. These range from ways to
tackle childhood obesity to enhancing food safety.

2: Link public research and development effort with business entrepreneurship. The New Zealand
government has recently reviewed its industry R&D effort through its Crown Research Institutes, with a
major refocus on commercial development. New Zealand is embedding its science and innovation in
a culture of entrepreneurship. This means innovation serves the nation’s business objectives.
3: Leverage university intellectual property for new business growth. The Hebrew University’s Yissum
Technology Transfer organisation has revolutionised the translation of technical research findings to
business. For example, high-productivity and disease-resistant cherry tomatoes have been a win-win
for the university and the growers.

4: Enhance bilateral trade ties in agricultural innovation.

Israeli experts are working in India’s agri-foods sector in micro-irrigation, mechanisation of horticulture,
plant nursery development and orchard management. They are helping some 20,000 Indian farms to
multiply their crop yields, in many cases by a factor of 10. And it’s big business. India is now Israel’s
sixth-largest trade and investment partner for commodities and technology. Food and agriculture
feature heavily in the relationship.

5: Commit more resources to making the food sector’s case.

Through the Pratt Foundation, we have helped to underwrite Soils for Life, a grassroots land
reclamation program, which has researched and produced an impressive array of case studies of
sustainable farming across Australia.

And Visy’s sponsorship of The Australian’s Global Food Forum for the past two years is aimed to
encourage more of our national decision-makers and opinion-leaders to catch the vision for “A New
Sustainable Green Revolution”.

6: A new corporate focus on innovation.
At Visy, our innovation group, linked to the Visy Technical Centre, develops new food packaging
products, such as our Thermotrac process. This cools fresh produce, especially during the crucial first
hours after harvesting, extends product life, reduces spoilage, and maximises food value for the
consumer.

These six suggestions are just a few examples. “Collaborative Innovation”, not as an occasional spurt,
but as a way of life for the food sector, is not beyond our reach, nor is it mission impossible for
Australia.

This is an edited extract from the Dean’s Lecture that Visy’s executive chairman, Anthony Pratt,
presented at the University of Melbourne’s School of Land and Environment yesterday

IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

i0 : Agriculture
gsust : Sustainable Development | reqraf : Suggested Reading Agriculture/Forestry | gcat :
Political/General News | genv : Environmental News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gplan :
Urban Planning/Development | gpol : Domestic Politics | redit : Selection of Top
Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140415ea4g00075

Page93of259©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.