Press Release: ZBB Energy Corporation Announces Pricing of Public Offering of Common Stock

Press Release: ZBB Energy Corporation Announces Pricing of Public Offering of Common Stock

HD
WC 946 words
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

14 March 2014
22:42
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

TD

ZBB Energy Corporation Announces Pricing of Public Offering of Common Stock

MILWAUKEE, WI--(Marketwired - Mar 14, 2014) - ZBB Energy Corporation (NYSE MKT: ZBB) (the
"Company"), a leading developer of intelligent, renewable energy power platforms and hybrid vehicle
control systems, today announced the pricing of its previously announced underwritten public offering.
The Company is offering 5,500,000 registered shares of its common stock, par value $0.01 per share, at
a price to the public of $2.25 per share. In connection with the offering, the Company has also granted
the underwriter a 30-day option to purchase up to an additional 825,000 shares of common stock from
the Company to cover over-allotments, if any.

The Company intends to use the net proceeds of the offering for working capital and general corporate
purposes. The offering is expected to settle and close on March 19, 2014, subject to the satisfaction or
waiver of customary closing conditions.

National Securities Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of National Holdings, Inc. (OTCBB: NHLD), is
acting as sole book-running manager for the offering. The Company is offering these securities pursuant
to its existing shelf registration statement (File No. 333-171957), including a base prospectus, as declared
effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on March 21, 2011.

A final prospectus supplement describing the terms of the offering will be filed with the SEC. Any offer will
be made only by means of a prospectus supplement and accompanying base prospectus forming a part
of the effective registration statement. Before investing, you should read the prospectus supplement and
the accompanying base prospectus, and other documents that the Company has filed or will file with the
SEC, for information about the Company and this offering. Copies of the prospectus supplement and the
accompanying base prospectus may be obtained, when available, by contacting the book-running
manager at the following address:

National Securities Corporation
410 Park Ave, 14(th) Floor

New York, NY 10022

Attn: Kim Addarich

Telephone: (212)-417-8164

Email: prospectusrequest@nationalsecurities.com
This press release does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities of
the ZBB Energy Corporation, and shall not constitute an offer, solicitation or sale of any security in any
state or jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or
qualification under the securities laws of any such state or jurisdiction.

About ZBB Energy Corporation

Page153of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.ZBB Energy Corporation (NYSE MKT: ZBB) designs, develops, and manufactures advanced energy
storage, power electronic systems, and engineered custom and semi-custom products targeted at the
growing global need for distributed renewable energy, energy efficiency, power quality, and grid
modernization. ZBB and its power electronics subsidiary, Tier Electronics, LLC, have developed a
portfolio of integrated power management platforms that combine advanced power and energy controls
plus energy storage to optimize renewable energy sources and conventional power inputs whether
connected to the grid or not. Tier Electronics participates in the energy efficiency markets through their
hybrid vehicle control systems, and power quality markets with their line of regulation solutions. Together,
these platforms solve a wide range of electrical system challenges in global markets for utility,
governmental, commercial, industrial and residential end customers. Founded in 1986, ZBB's platforms
ensure optimal efficiencies today, while offering the flexibility to adapt and scale to future requirements.
ZBB's corporate offices, engineering and development, and production facilities are located in
Menomonee Falls, WI, USA with a research facility also located in Perth, Western Australia. ZBB has a
joint venture with Meineng Energy, a provider of leading-edge energy storage systems and solutions to
the greater China market. For more information, visit: www.zbbenergy.com.

Safe Harbor Statements

Certain statements made in this press release contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of
Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended that are intended to be covered by the "safe harbor" created by those sections.
Forward-looking statements, which are based on certain assumptions and describe our future plans,
strategies and expectations, can generally be identified by the use of forward-looking terms such as
"believe," "expect," "may," "will," "should," "could," "seek," "intend," "plan," "estimate," "anticipate" or other
comparable terms. Forward-looking statements in this press release may address the following subjects
among others: statements regarding the underwritten public offering and our intent regarding the use of
proceeds from the offering. Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties which
could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements, as a result of
various factors including those risks and uncertainties described in the Risk Factors and in Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations sections of our most recently
filed Annual Report on Form 10-K and our subsequently filed Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. We urge
you to consider those risks and uncertainties in evaluating our forward-looking statements. We caution
readers not to place undue reliance upon any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of
the date made. Except as otherwise required by the federal securities laws, we disclaim any obligation or
undertaking to publicly release any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement contained
herein (or elsewhere) to reflect any change in our expectations with regard thereto or any change in
events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

March 14, 2014 08:42 ET (12:42 GMT)

CO
IN

NS

RE

zbbec : ZBB Energy Corporation
i342 : Electrical Components/Equipment | i35104 : Electric/Gas/Biofuel Vehicles | iindstrls : Industrial
Goods | iinv : Investing/Securities | i351 : Motor Vehicles | iaut : Automotive | ifinal : Financial Services |
iindele : Industrial Electronics | i3432 : Batteries
c171 : Share Capital | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | cspric :
Stock Pricings | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | npress : Press Releases | c17 : Funding/Capital |
c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | usa : United States | usil : Illinois | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
namz : North America | usc : Midwest U.S.

PUB Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
AN

Document DJDN000020140314ea3e001t1

Page154of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.