HK buyer mulls $69m Bligh House

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
HK buyer mulls $69m Bligh House

Mercedes Ruehl
367 words
26 June 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
34
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

A Hong Kong investor is nearing a purchase of Cromwell Property Group's Bligh House in
Sydney for about $69 million.
The off-market negotiation, if it goes ahead, would be a coup for the property investment and funds
management group after it bought the asset from the NSW government a year earlier.

A deal remains a fair way off but industry sources said the potential buyer, who is in exclusive
negotiations, is looking at a hotel opportunity for the site.
Bligh House at 4-6 Bligh Street in the central business district is a 23-level commercial building.
It has a ground-floor retail zone and a basement car park for 21 vehicles.

The overall net lettable area of the building is just under 10,000 square metres.
It is 94 per cent leased to Government Property NSW.

Cromwell has approaches from both onshore and international parties and many remain interested.
McVay Real Estate is handling the transaction but declined to comment when contacted.

Cromwell also declined to comment.

The NSW government offloaded a portfolio of office assets – including Bligh House – to Cromwell in
2013 for $405 million as part of a multibillion-dollar auction of state real estate assets.

It comes at a busy time for Cromwell.
The property group is in the process of selling two landmark cinema buildings in Victoria and
NSW, with a combined value of about $28 million.

Both properties are securely leased and have received multiple offers.
However, it is understood that price has been a sticking point and no group has entered due
diligence.
More recently, Cromwell acquired a half stake in New Zealand property manager Oyster Group for
$NZ5 million ($4.6 million), with a further $NZ2.5 million payable over the next two years.
The group is also considering converting Lovett Tower in Woden, south Canberra, into an
apartment building or aged care complex.

The 22-storey tower is the tallest in Canberra.

Page171of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The current tenant, the Commonwealth's Department of Veterans' Affairs, will move out in 2016 into
the Australian Taxation Office premises in Civic as part of a consolidation of office space by the
federal government.

wriv : Cromwell Property Group
ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction | i85 : Real Estate Transactions
c182 : Asset Transactions | gpol : Domestic Politics | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c18 :
Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | gcat : Political/General News | gpir :
Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry
News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140625ea6q00005

CO
IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page172of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.