Parmalat still thirsty after WA deal

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

RF
CO
IN

Parmalat still thirsty after WA deal

Takeover Tim Binsted
413 words
2 April 2014
Canberra Times
CANBTZ
B009
English
(c) 2014 The Canberra Times

A $120 million offer to acquire Harvey Fresh is the latest in a wave of dairy industry moves. Photo:
Wolter Peeters

Parmalat still thirsty after WA deal

Takeover Tim Binsted
'Our intention is to grow this business.' Craig Garvin, Parmalat chief
Parmalat Australia chief executive Craig Garvin said the French-owned dairy company would keep
hunting for quality acquisitions, just hours after penning a $120 million deal to acquire Western
Australia's biggest dairy exporter, Harvey Fresh. Harvey Fresh processes 130 million litres of milk a
year - roughly a third of WA's milk - and produces 100 million litres of fruit juice at its facilities in Harvey,
WA, and Griffith, NSW. Mr Garvin said none of Harvey's 300-odd employees would lose their jobs. "Our
intention is to grow this business. This gives us a market we didn't have a strong presence in, a
manufacturing footprint and access to milk supply in WA," Mr Garvin told Fairfax Media. The deal comes
amid a wave
ofconsolidation and corporate manoeuvring in Australia's dairy sector and surging appetite for dairy
products in Asia. In February, Canadian dairy powerhouse Saputo won a fierce $500 million takeover
battle for Australia's oldest dairy, Warrnambool Cheese & Butter, and Hong Kong businessman William
Hui snapped up Australia's biggest privately owned dairy processor, United Dairy Power, for $70 million.
"The industry is consolidating. If the value is right, we will look at it [a takeover]. We are very happy with
the acquisition," Mr Garvin said. Soaring global demand for milk
powders and infant formulas has pushed prices for some dairy products to near record highs and has put
a rocket under farm-gate milk prices. But domestic-focused processors are under intense pressure as
margins are sandwiched by the spiralling cost of milk and depressed prices on the retail shelf due to the
supermarket wars between Coles and Woolworths. Parmalat exports less than 10 per cent of the 850
million litres of milk it collects every year, and Mr Garvin said growing exports was a core part of his
strategy. But he insisted he was not abandoning the domestic market because of the supermarkets'
cut-price milk battle. "We are keen to invest in Australian dairy with a strong export focus, but we are not
walking away from the domestic market," he said. "We have to work as constructively with Woolies and
Coles as we can."

55522095
cenord : Parmalat SpA | slb : Groupe Lactalis
i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i413 : Dairy Products | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp :
Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB Federal Capital Press of Australia Pty Ltd

Page236of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AN

Document CANBTZ0020140401ea4200010

Page237of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.