China ’s rich get dream holiday

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
China’s rich get dream holiday

Robyn Ironside National Travel Writer
381 words
30 October 2014
Gold Coast Bulletin
GCBULL
GoldCoast
2
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

TOURISM Australia is targeting China’s most affluent travel seekers with a holiday package “money
can’t buy”.

Well, it can, but it’ll set you back $70,000 per person.

The 22-day tour takes in every state and territory, showcasing Gold Coast beaches, Uluru and
Kangaroo Island plus a range of the country’s top restaurants such as Quay in Sydney, Darwin’s
Evoo, Attica in Melbourne and Windy Point near Adelaide.
International business class flights, luxury lodgings and exclusive wine tastings are also included in
the price.
China is now our most valuable tourism market, overtaking the United Kingdom during the past year
to be worth $5.3 billion.
That figure is expected to grow to $13 billion by 2020, aided by more direct flights between Australia
and China, as well as the weaker Australian dollar.
Although just 30 packages will be sold in China to underline its exclusivity, Tourism Australia
managing director John O’Sullivan said it was about “making headlines” and spreading the word.
“We know this holiday may be out of the reach of many Chinese travellers but this is also
aspirational,” Mr O’Sullivan said.

“What we’re really seeking to do is create a buzz, a sense of excitement and new news about
Australia.” HH Travel general manager Omar Chen said the package would be sold on a “first- come,
first-served” basis.
“Priced at $70,000 (CNY375,000) per person, this is targeted at China’s most wealthy citizens who
are looking for total exclusivity,” said Mr Chen.

“We know from experience that exclusive packages such as these generate huge interest and can
have a knock-on effect on other holiday bookings.” Mr Chen said a similar package offering an 88-day
world tour had sold out in just seconds.

“We’re hoping for a similar response with this, particularly as we know that Australia is top of the
travel wish list of most Chinese travellers,” Mr Chen said.

“We expect the publicity around the promotion to generate extensive inquiries about other more
affordable holidays.”The sale will coincide with the launch of the Restaurant Australia campaign in
Shanghai this week, using food and drink to tempt travellers Down Under.

CO

toursm : Tourism Australia

Page264of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS
RE

PUB
AN

gtour : Travel | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document GCBULL0020141030eaau0001d

Page265of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.