'Lots more' to come from China

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
'Lots more' to come from China

Nick Lenaghan
396 words
20 March 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
45
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

A new wave of institutional investment from China has begun flowing into the Australian
commercial property sector to compete with other regional investors already active in the local
market.
The next phase of Chinese investment in property has been long anticipated, after initial forays in
recent years by wealthy private investors and their families.

Giant Chinese property developer Greenland Holding Group, which is controlled by the Shanghai
municipal government, now has $1 billion worth of work in two projects.
One is a Sydney residential tower and the other is a residential development on land acquired
from the Victorian Racing Club at Flemington in Melbourne.

The move by Sino-Ocean Land Holdings to back a $300 million joint venture in Melbourne
represents the next step.
Listed in Hong Kong, Sino Ocean Land's largest single shareholder is China Life Insurance, one
of the world's largest insurers.
With a massive workbook in China, Sino Ocean Land's 2013 profit surged 21 per cent to about
$550 million.
Savills Australia head of research Tony Crabb said his firm had long expected the amount of
direct investment coming out of China would eventually exceed foreign investment going into that
country.

"We've seen just the beginning of it," Mr Crabb said.
"Some markets such Hong Kong and Singapore have been receiving the lion's of share of it.

"Now that capital is moving further afield.

"How much more is there to come? Lots, is the short answer," Mr Crabb said.
"The sheer size of the institutions in China, whether they be state-owned or private enterprises, is
beyond most people's reckoning in Australia."
In late 2012, Chinese authorities eased restrictions on Chinese insurance firms investing in
offshore property.
That change, combined with separate restraints on property investment within China, have
helped fuel the institutional push into offshore markets, Mr Crabb said.
"The Chinese are slow and careful in moving.

Page147of315©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."They are conservative. This is the beginning of a much broader reach of investment."
China is the largest source of foreign demand for Australian real estate, with the Foreign
Investment Review Board granting approval for $5.9 billion in purchases in 2012-13.
Chinese property investment rose 44 per cent in the year to replace the United States and
Singapore as the top origin of foreign investment in the sector.

CO
IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

sgregc : Greenland Holding Group Company Limited
ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction | i501 : Building Construction | i5010021 :
Land Development/Subdivision | iconst : Construction
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric
: BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140319ea3k0002t

Page148of315©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.