Cargill calls for action to tackle soaring energy prices EXCLUSIVE AGRIBUSINESS CHIEF WORRIED ABOUT RISING COSTS

SE
HD

BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Finance
Cargill calls for action to tackle soaring energy prices EXCLUSIVE AGRIBUSINESS CHIEF
WORRIED ABOUT RISING COSTS
DAMON KITNEY, EXCLUSIVE
751 words
24 March 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
1 - All-round Country
17
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

ONE of the nation's most powerful agricultural industry executives wants urgent action to address
soaring energy prices, fearing they will ``continue to go up dramatically'' and threaten Australia's
international competitiveness as a supplier of raw commodities and food products.
Cargill Australia managing director Philippa Purser declared that energy prices were currently her
biggest concern and said the industry, the public and the government all needed to work together to
find a solution to the problem. But she feared none appeared imminent.

``I am very worried about energy. Energy costs for our network have gone up dramatically. I look
forward with real concern that they could continue to go up dramatically,'' she told The Australian.
``I am not sure how the energy picture in Australia will play out. From what I see today, it isn't clear to
me that we are going to solve the problem . . . It is a difficult issue. There are a lot of stakeholders. I
don't want to underplay the complexity of it, but it would be nice to see some more action.''

Australia now has has some of the highest electricity costs in the developed world as a result of the
introduction of the carbon tax, the renewable energy target and a range of federal and state
government policies.

According to the Minerals Council of Australia, household electricity prices have increased by more
than 110 per cent in the past five years, and are projected to increase another 7 per cent in 2014-15.

It says businesses -- which account for 70 per cent of total electricity use in Australia -- have
experienced an almost 80 per cent increase in prices since 2009 and more hikes are on the way.
Business groups have called for dramatic changes to the Renewable Energy Target after the federal
government announced a review of the scheme, to be headed by former Reserve Bank board member
Dick Warburton.

The review could see a reduction in the mandated target of 41,000 gigawatts an hour of renewable
energy by 2020.
Cargill Australia has operations across the grain and oilseed storage, flour milling and meat
processing sectors and is a big energy user. In November last year the company also secured
Foreign Investment Review Board approval for its acquisition of Joe White Maltings, Australia's
largest malt producer.
While Ms Purser said soaring energy costs were her biggest fear, she was also concerned about the
state of the nation's railway and port infrastructure. Cargill exports more than 20 per cent of Australia's
wheat and owns two million tonnes of annual rail capacity after purchasing the grain assets of the
Australian Wheat Board two and a half years ago.

Page31of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.``We have inefficient infrastructure here. It would be good to see some more investment in rail. The
port access is somewhat problematic in some parts of the country,'' she said.
But she applauded the government for its pursuit of free trade deals with China and Japan after
securing a deal with South Korea.

``It is great to see some of the work this government has done on free trade and we look forward to
more,'' she said.
Earlier this month, the government also announced a $320 million assistance package, providing
hundreds of families access to welfare payments, low-interest loans and mental health services in
remote areas. The drought assistance package provides $280m to hundreds of farmers to access
five-year loans at 4 per cent, up to the value of $1m each.

But Prime Minister Tony Abbott stressed that despite the tough conditions in parts of the country, he
would not consider subsidising farmers and graziers and wanted the sector to remain competitive and
self-sufficient.

Ms Purser agreed that subsidies were not the answer.

``It is always good for growers to be growing what the world needs, and the more you put in subsidies,
if you are not careful, you discourage innovation and muddy the signals about what people should be
growing. The more you can let the free market work, the better,'' she said. ``There are growers here in
a difficult position after several tough seasons. Our role is to make sure they plant the right crops and
help them produce more from the same land.

``If you have subsidies or not is the wrong question -- it is how do we make farming in Australia an
attractive and profitable profession.''

CO
IN
NS
RE
PUB
AN

crginc : Cargill, Inc.
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp : Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140323ea3o0007e

Page32of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.