Territory iron ore miner awards Roper Bar contract to Thiess

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB

Business
Territory iron ore miner awards Roper Bar contract to Thiess

Jenny Rogers
271 words
14 January 2014
The Courier-Mail
COUMAI
CourierMail
25
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

THE Northern Territory’s largest new miner in almost two decades has awarded a $135 million
contract to Leighton subsidiary Thiess to lead mining operations at the Roper Bar iron ore
project.
The three-year contract with Western Desert Resources marks a return to iron ore mining for
Thiess.

WDR managing director Norm Gardner said Thiess has worked on the project, 600km south east
of Darwin, since November.

“(Thiess has) an experienced management team and proven track record,’’ he said. Thiess said
central to the relationship between it and WDR was a joint vision to provide opportunities to
indigenous Australians.

“We have a shared strategy with WDR to offer indigenous Australians training and employment
opportunities,” said Michael Wright, Thiess’ executive general manager of Australian mining.
WDR marked its entry into the ranks of Australia’s iron ore producers in December when it
trucked its first shipment of iron ore from its Roper Bar project ready for delivery to China.

Its board boasts some corporate heavy hitters.
WDR director, Gold Coast lawyer and former Billabong director Scott Perrin was crucial in
bringing many of the high net-worth individuals to the table, including pubs billionaireBruce
Mathieson.
The pair initially held an 18 per cent stake in the company through investment vehicle Permat but
Mr Mathieson is so confident of the company’s future he recently joined the board and is now
WDR’s biggest shareholder.
Adelaide based Rick Allert, the former chairman of Coles Myer, chairs the company.Former
Woolworths chief executive Roger Corbett is also an investor.

wesde : Western Desert Resources Limited
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying | i2112 : Gold Ore/Silver Ore Mining
c33 : Contracts/Orders | c333 : Non-governmental Contracts | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News |
ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | nterry : Northern Territory | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.

Page8of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AN

Document COUMAI0020140113ea1e00014

Page9of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.