TNG gets $5 million for Mt Peake

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

TNG gets $5 million for Mt Peake

Carrie Burns
490 words
24 October 2014
Business News
WABN
English
© Copyright 2014 Business News Pty Ltd.

Subiaco-based metals explorer TNG has secured $5 million through a placement to fund the
definitive feasibility study on the company's Mount Peake vanadium-titanium-iron project in the
Northern Territory.
The company received commitments of 50 million new shares at an issue price of 10 cents per
share, with the offer including a one-for-four free attaching listed option.

The placement share price is more than double that of its previous raising.

TNG raised around $700,000 in February at 4.5 cents under the same terms as its placement and
share purchase plan completed last October, when it raised $3.5 million.

The share price peaked over the past 12 months at 34 cents in July, after it announced an
investment, strategic co-operation, off-take and finance deal with Hyundai Steel Co.

TNG shares were down slightly today at 10.5 cents at close of trade.
The capital raising adds to the company's existing $3 million cash reserves, with a further $1.2
million expected next month from research and development tax incentive refund claims.

TNG announced throughout the year various stages of agreements with strategic partners including
WOOJIN, POSCO, Global Pacific Partners and Hyundai Steel Co., which the company said it would
aim to finalise over the coming months.

The partnerships will contribute to financing, development and long-term off-take for the Mount Peake
project.

TNG adopted a cost-cutting strategy in August last year that saw a 10 to 20 per cent reduction in fees
and salaries for directors, management and staff, as well as staff reductions in Western Australia and
Northern Territory.
Earlier this month the company announced managing director Paul Burton's renewed contract terms,
under which his base salary of $360,000 remained unchanged.
However, the company introduced an incentive bonus of cash or shares, based on market
capitalisation equivalent to 15 per cent of base salary when the market cap reaches trigger points set
by the board.

Under the terms of the incentive, Mr Burton's base salary would increase if the market cap remains
above a trigger point for a period of at least three months.

Mr Burton said the strategy going forward would see all expenditure focused on the Mount Peake
project, with the company's base metal assets to be spun-off into its 100 per cent owned Todd River
Resources next year.

"With this structure in place, TNG's aim is to become a substantial Australian Strategic metals house
with a world-class asset in Mount Peake, while retaining a significant shareholding in Todd River

Page80of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Resources, which will become one of the largest base metal companies operating in the Northern
Territory," he said.
The placement was managed by Hong Kong-based Reorient Financial Markets for its offshore
investors and Melbourne-based Calibre Investments for the Australian offering, and is not subject to
shareholder approval.

CO
IN

RE

PUB
AN

inste : Hyundai Steel Company
i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | isteel :
Steel Production
austr : Australia | nterry : Northern Territory | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz
: Australia/Oceania
Business News Pty Ltd
Document WABN000020141024eaao000ma

Page81of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.