Why the US Export-Import Bank backed Rinehart's Roy Hill

HD Why the US Export-Import Bank backed Rinehart's Roy Hill
BY Margaret McKenzie, Lecturer, School of Accounting, Economics and Finance at Deakin University
WC 942 words
PD 1 April 2014
SN The Conversation
SC CONVAU
LA
CY Copyright 2014. The Conservation Media Group.
LP

English

When Gina Rinehart’s Roy Hill mine proposal secured the multi-billion dollar financing deal needed to
proceed last week, questions were asked about the US$694.4 million coming from the US Export-Import
Bank.

Similar to the export credit agencies of many other governments, the Export-Import Bank of the United
States (Ex-Im Bank) is the official export credit agency of the US government.

TD

For the benefit of the US…

The US Ex-Im Bank’s mission is pretty standard for government export credit agencies, that is to assist in
financing the export of US goods and services to international markets, to help to maintain and create US
jobs and contribute to a stronger national economy.

The Bank aims to fill gaps in trade financing by assuming credit and country risks that the private sector is
unable or unwilling to accept, and to match the financing that other governments provide to their exporters.

It also extends credit to exporting firms and provides insurance for their trade activities, with 85% of its
transactions directly benefiting US small businesses, according to the Bank’s website.
The US$600 billion of US exports, primarily to developing markets worldwide, the Bank claims to have
enabled during 80 years is pretty small in the scheme of things, especially considering the large size of the
US economy. US GDP is currently estimated at over US$17 trillion in 2013 and even its relatively small
export sector of less than 10% of the economy is still worth over US$1.5 trillion.

But all countries play this game

Loans from the government export credit agency of a country mainly take the form of extending credit
which allows foreign firms to import from the domestic firm, thereby guaranteeing the proceeds to the
domestic firm. Accordingly the US Ex-Im Bank might be expected to target Australian companies which
would import goods and services from US companies. Hence the extension of credit so that Gina
Rinehart’s Roy Hill Holdings can purchase equipment from US firms in order to develop the Roy Hilliron
ore project.

In 2013 Australian companies got over 1.5% of the US Ex-Im Bank’s global total of export credits of over
US$19 billion. This is roughly in proportion to Australia’s contribution to world trade. In 2013 Australia
came just halfway down the list of 40 countries ranked according to the amount of US export credits
obtained. Germany, UAE, Indonesia, Mexico, China-HK, UK and India received US credits of over US$1
billion each in 2013.

It is standard for governments to have an export credit agency to support their countries’ companies in
obtaining the finance necessary to fund exporting activities. Almost 40 countries including the industrial
countries and China and India have export credit agencies. What’s more the governments of many large
economies, for instance Germany and other European and Asian economies, finance a much larger
proportion of their exports this way than does the US government.
It has been reported that the Roy Hill project has also secured US$550 million in loans and $US450m in
loan guarantees from the Korea Exim Bank, and an additional US$900 million from the Japan Bank for
International Co-operation and US$750 million from the Nippon Export and Investment Insurance
Corporation.

Page23of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Such financing is clearly strategic and aligns with political as well as economic interests. That’s the nature
of the beast. Moreover gaining export credits largely doesn’t require that firms offer decent working
conditions, pay their taxes or meet environmental or other ethical standards. Export credit agencies are in
effect not regulated globally.

https://62e528761d0685343e1c-
f3d1b99a743ffa4142d9d7f1978d9686.ssl.cf2.rackcdn.com/files/45210/width668/yjqy7nn5-1396306353.jpg

An Australian policy failing?
One concern is why Roy Hill or any other mining company in Australia needs to import equipment from
US companies such as Caterpillar, General Electric and Atlas Copco, rather than Australian
manufacturers. This could be seen as arising from an absence or failure of industrial policy in Australia
over many decades, to promote and nurture appropriate industrial development.

The result is the decline in the manufacturing sector and a dependence on resource extensive sectors,
agriculture and natural resources and energy extraction, and insufficient value adding or innovation
activities. By contrast, many other industrial countries can be seen to have comprehensive and successful
industrial polices, from Germany to New Zealand.

If winners and losers are created through gaining export credits, this is a matter for Australian government
policy.
Has Gina Rinehart’s company received disproportionate US Ex-Im Bank lending relative to other firms in
Australia?
While the Roy Hill project is getting nearly US$700 million in export credit and guarantees from the US
Ex-Im Bank, in 2013 Qantas got $284 million to import from Boeing. Before that, Australia Pacific LNG
Processing got a much larger US$2.9 billion to support Bechtel Power Corp , and Jabiru Satellite got
US$281 to support Lockheed and Newsat, and more. The Roy Hill loan is not out of line with these deals.

In small countries like Australia a few companies can often dominate an industry. These are the
companies likely to benefit from the export credits of other governments. This increases the already
challenging problem of evaluating whether some companies are favoured over others.
Margaret McKenzie does not work for, consult to, own shares in or receive funding from any company or
organisation that would benefit from this article, and has no relevant affiliations.

CO exmbnk : Export-Import Bank of the United States
IN

i8150110 : Export-import Financing | i81501 : Credit Types/Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal :
Financial Services | i82 : Insurance | i82003 : Non-life Insurance | itci : Trade Credit Insurance
c312 : External Markets | gtrade : Tariffs/Trade Barriers | e512 : Physical Trade | c31 : Marketing | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News | gcat :
Political/General News | gdip : International Relations | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North
America

NS

RE

PUB The Conversation Media Group Limited
AN Document CONVAU0020140401ea4100006

Page24of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.