Saputo win restores dairy as big cheese

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Saputo win restores dairy as big cheese

Tony Boyd
1,345 words
17 January 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
40
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Chanticleer
Australia's long-neglected and somewhat stagnant dairy industry is about to enjoy a capital
investment bonanza following a successful takeover of Warrnambool Cheese & Butter Factory by
Canadian group Saputo.

The takeover has transformed the valuations in the industry and has the potential to change the
long-term economics of the dairy and milk processing sector by injecting about half a billion dollars
in capital.
The deal has doubled the valuation of all dairy companies in Australia. That means the big players,
including those companies that failed to take over Warrnambool, will now have a gilt-edged and
valuable currency to raise capital or do more deals.

As is usually the case in Australian agriculture, it took the sudden intervention of a foreign player to
make local investors realise just how valuable milk is as a commodity in both raw and processed
form.
It was a similar story with GrainCorp. Foreign grains groupArcher Daniels Midland bid $3.4 billion
and promised to invest $500 million in upgrading local infrastructure. But Treasurer Joe Hockey
squashed that bid after split advice from the Foreign Investment Review Board.

Saputo will show the advantage of foreign intervention reasonably quickly. It plans to use
Warrnambool as the regional production centre for its attack on the Chinese market. It had the guts to
pay double what local investors were willing to pay on the premise that global demand for milk
products would outstrip supply within three years because of demand from China.
Saputo will be pumping more than $500 million into the dairy industry including about $100 million
each to Bega Cheese and Murray Goulburn in return for their strategic stakes in the company.

Bega, which owned 18.8 per cent, accepted the offer on Thursday and Murray Goulburn, which owns
17.7 per cent, is likely to accept in a few days. Once Saputo has more than 50 per cent of the target,
its offer will automatically extend for two weeks.

The market clearly believes Saputo will win more than 75 per cent of the target because at that price
the Canadians will offer $9.40 a share. Warrnambool stock closed on Thursday at $9.40.
If Saputo gets control of 90 per cent of the company, it will pay $9.60 a share.But there is no
guarantee that Japanese group Kirin, which owns 9.9 per cent of Warrnambool through its Australian
subsidiary Lion, will accept the bid.
If it does, it will pick up $55 million from Saputo and make a profit of about $11 million. Those
numbers are peanuts in the context of Kirin's revenue and balance sheet.

Page103of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.In other words, the Japanese could hold out for some sort of financial benefit such as long-term
contracts with Saputo.
Bega and Murray Goulburn will each make profits of $70 million on their shareholdings in
Warrnambool.

Bega and Murray Goulburn are expected to use the cash from Saputo to crank up their investment in
the sector. They want to enhance their export offerings and take advantage of rising demand in Asia.
The incentive to improve their manufacturing capabilities is clear from the fact that infant formula sells
in China for four times the price in Australia.
Also, Saputo will pay about $200 million to local dairy farmers and their families who owned shares
in Warrnambool. That might end up being reinvested in their farms but given the tough times in the
industry it will probably end up as retirement nest eggs.

Hedge funds will pick up the rest of the cash being paid out by Saputo. The hedge funds were very
active during the Warrnambool takeover. Some bought in, sold out along the way, then bought in
again.

There were multiple opportunities for profits during the takeover because of the extraordinary increase
in the valuation of the company.

The bidding started in September last year when Bega kicked off the auction with a bid of $5.78 in
cash and Bega shares.

Once the auction started, there was no stopping it. There have been nine different bids despite the
fact that all the way through the board of Warrnambool favoured the offers from Saputo.

The takeover of Warrnambool is perfectly timed for Murray Goulburn. It is due to raise capital this year
using synthetic instruments similar to those used by New Zealand dairy co-operative Fonterra. The
Kiwis created an innovative way to access capital markets. They preserved the ownership of the
business by dairy farmers while allowing outsiders to enjoy the benefits of the company's exposure
to Chinese demand.
Fonterra is held up as a shining light in world dairy markets. However, the fact that it is a monopoly
carries increased risks. These market concentration risks were highlighted in the past few months
when it suffered recalls of its products.

Saputo's entry into the battle for control of Warrnambool was noteworthy because it was up against
rival offers from in-market companies, Bega Cheese and Murray Goulburn. Normally, the in-market
bidders have a distinct advantage over new entrants. They can allegedly pay more because of the
ability for cost cutting because of overlapping activities.

These so called synergy benefits were certainly heavily spruiked by Saputo's rivals.

In fact, the synergy benefits were judged so magnificent by rival bidder Murray Goulburn that it formed
the basis of its case before the Australian Competition Tribunal.

Murray Goulburn had previously had a tilt at Warrnambool three years ago only to withdraw when the
Australian Competition and Consumer Commission said it believed a takeover would substantially
lessen competition.

Hard heads reckon Murray Goulburn should have taken the ACCC head on instead of by passing
them and seeking Australia's first merger authorisation from the Tribunal.

The ACCC did not respond kindly to the tribunal application. Some observers even opined that it
appeared to be fighting to preserve its relevance when it opposed the national champion arguments
put by Murray Goulburn.

It may well be that the Tribunal case will wither on the vine if Murray Goulburn obtains approval from
the corporate regulator to withdraw its takeover offer for Warrnambool.

Murray Goulburn's takeover ambitions may not be dimmed by its defeat in the battle for Warrnambool.

It could go after Bega but that is much more difficult than it first looks. Bega has a limit on ownership
of its shares of 10 per cent for one shareholder.
That shareholder cap can only be changed if the company's constitution is changed which requires a
75 per cent majority of those voting.

Page104of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Also, it would seem to be the wrong time to be bidding for Bega considering its market capitalisation
has risen by $480 million to $700 million in the five months since it launched the bid for
Warrnambool.

Even if it does not get bigger by acquisition, Murray Goulburn under chief executive Gary Helou will
emerge as a winner. It is cashed up and well position to take advantage of the transformation of its
capital structure.

The Warrnambool takeover is good for Australia because it will introduce an entrepreneurial player to
the market in the shape of Saputo.
This company was founded by Giuseppe Saputo, an Italian who migrated to Canada in 1952. His
son, Lino, is chairman and his grandson Lino jnr is the executive of the company now valued at about
$C4.2 billion.

It is ironic that Saputo has managed to expand successfully internationally from a base in Canada. It
is one of the most protected milk markets in the world.

The Warrnambool takeover was a boon for bankers, lawyers and public relations firms.

The roll call of bankers and lawyers is as follows: CIMB and Minter Ellison advised Warrnambool;
Lazard and Herbert Smith Freehills advised Murray Goulburn; Kidder Williams and Addisons Lawyers
advised Bega; Rothschild, Rabobank and Maddocks advised Saputo; Greenhill & Co and King &
Wood Mallesons advised Lion and Fonterra was advised by Reunion Capital Partners.

tony.boyd@afr.com.au Twitter @TonyBoydAFR

Tony Boyd

CO

IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

arch : Archer Daniels Midland Company | wcbfch : Warrnambool Cheese and Butter Factory
Company Holdings Ltd
i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i0 : Agriculture | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i413 : Dairy
Products | icnp : Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products | i416 : Flour/Malt Products
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | reqraf : Suggested Reading Agriculture/Forestry | redit : Selection of
Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140116ea1h00006

Page105of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.