Relax on the rooftops

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Domain
Relax on the rooftops

ANNA ANDERSON
989 words
14 June 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
14
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

NEW HOMES
Developers are competing to offer buyers the good life on top of their apartment blocks.

There was a time when the rooftops of Sydney's apartment blocks were wasted on laundries,
storerooms, airconditioning units and lift stations.

A notable exception was the 1920s Astor on Macquarie Street where a vast rooftop now sports a
synthetic grass lawn providing residents the outdoor escape that their apartments do not.

Today, few unit blocks are designed without balconies or terraces. Some developers have gone a step
further using the rooftop spaces above their apartment blocks for gardens.

Buyers are being seduced by enticing marketing images of designer communal rooftops. Skye by
Crown's artist's impression of the horizon-edge pool above North Sydney drew buyers by the dozens.

An open-air cinema atop another North Sydney project, Montrose, also captured the imagination of
buyers. And the promise of a communal garden to crown the Eve building at Erskineville was a factor
in the phenomenal buyer interest which led to selling agents CBRE transacting 140 sales in two hours
on its recent launch day.

Other examples include Winten's rooftop pool and gym at Belvedere in North Sydney, Omega, the
boutique low-rise in Glebe, with its top-floor communal deck and Redfern's new Cleveland & Co.
development where landscape architects Black Beetle are designing an oasis overlooking the city.

In Willoughby, a boutique development of 74 apartments, Sienna by Hyecorp, has included a
400-square-metre top-floor garden with a pool and city views.

From the rooftops of three planned buildings in the newly released Ryde Garden development at North
Ryde, residents will have a view of the Harbour Bridge and city skyline.

The trio of buildings, set back 50 metres from Delhi Road, will each have its own rooftop garden. Bates
Smart Architects have been engaged by developer Country Garden to design 830 apartments. In
Country Garden's first Australian project, the Sydney arm of the Guangdong-baseddeveloper - which
currently has about 200 projects across China and Malaysia - has chosen a prime site 50 metres from
North Ryde train station.

The selection of one, two and three-bedroom apartments will share exceptional amenities including a
gym and well-being centre, 25-metre lap pool, childcare centre and a centrally positioned park.
Each apartment, with its open-plan living areas, marble finishes and sheltered balconies, will be
airconditioned and have its own car space.

Page15of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Residents of the Southbank development at Wolli Creek, in Sydney's inner south, will have access to a
rooftop pool with unobstructed views over the waterfront Cahill Park, Kogarah Golf course and city
skyline.
In a bid to keep strata levies down at Southbank, joint venture developers Winten Property Group
and Lyon Group Australia have also secured access to facilities in the adjacent Mercure International
Hotel.

"Because we've been lucky enough to be able to offer this, it means that we can also offer significantly
reduced strata fees," says Winten Property Group development manager, Chris Ryan. Spence
Pearson Architects have designed the 72 apartments and interiors are by Hecker Guthrie. "Once
complete, this building will really signify people's entry into Wolli Creek and provide a gateway into the
inner south," says Curtis Field, director of project marketing for the selling agents, Colliers International.
In the Sutherland Shire, the new Woolooware Bay waterfront community by Bluestone Group will have
a rooftop cinema crowning one of the residential buildings. Another building will have an infinity pool
on its roof.

The Sunset Cinema above Esplanade will have outdoor seating and a bar while the Pinnacle Pool
above Crest will be surrounded by cabanas and outdoor lounges.

Ryde Garden, 27 Delhi Road, North Ryde

Designed by Bates Smart Architects, Ryde Garden will be 50 metres from North Ryde station and two
train stops from Macquarie University. While prices are yet to be confirmed, one-beds in the area
range from $500,000 to $650,000, and two-beds from $650,000 to $750,000. Strata levies start at
$650pq. Due for completion in 2017. Phone JLL, 1800 638 886, or CPM Realty, 9247 1299.
rydegarden.com.au.

CASE STUDY
It was the rooftop putting green that sold retiree and keen golfer, Ronald Morton on the Jacara
Apartments at Putney Hill. Morton, 71, and his wife, Mimi, bought a two-bedroom apartment off the
plan just after Christmas.

"I like the whole project," says Morton, "but the top-floor garden is phenomenal." The Mortons paid
$910,000 for their apartment which shares the top floor with three others. The rest of the roof space is
given over to a communal garden.

Jacara Apartments are part of the masterplanned community at Putney Hill near Ryde by Frasers
Properties. The Cox Richardson-designed plan includes a rooftop barbecue, outdoor kitchen and
putting green.

"I'm counting the days until we move in; I'm not joking," Morton says.

OR TRY THESE ...

Southbank, 20 Levey Street, Wolli Creek

Registrations of interest are now being taken for the final premium stage in Southbank. One-bedroom
units (52-plus square metres) start at $490,000, two-beds (72-plus square metres) from $610,000, and
three-beds (96-plus square metres) from $815,000. Strata levies from $650 pq. First residents are
expected to move in late-2015. Phone Colliers International, 1800 662 960.
southbankwollicreek.com.au.

Woolooware Bay, 471 Captain Cook Road, Woolooware

Turner Architects have designed 600 units in a series of waterside buildings as part of the Cronulla
Sharks land redevelopment. Facilities include a rooftop cinema, rooftop pool, a gym, lap pool and spa,
and a lagoon-style pool and barbecue area. Available in the Landings release are two-beds (79-plus
square metres) from $700,000 and three-beds (114-plus square metres) from $1.01 million. Phone
Colliers International, 1800 088 800. wooloowarebay.com.au.

IN

NS

irreal : Residential Real Estate | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ireest
: Real Estate
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | garchi : Architecture | gart : Art | gcat : Political/General News | gent
: Arts/Entertainment

Page16of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

PUB
AN

austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New
South Wales
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020140613ea6e0008n

Page17of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.