Segue Resources Limited - RM Capital Research, Initiation of Coverage

HD Segue Resources Limited - RM Capital Research, Initiation of Coverage
WC 2,954 words
PD 17 January 2014
SN ENP Newswire
SC ENPNEW
LA English
CY
LP

(c) 2014, Electronic News Publishing. All Rights Reserved.

Release date - 16012014

Segue Resources Ltd is a junior minerals explorer focused on its recently acquired Fraser Range projects
in the Southeast of Western Australia.

TD

Segue controls over 3,500km2 of tenements in the Fraser Range region, and has one of the largest
holdings in the province.
Within its Fraser Range tenements, the company is concentrating the majority of its effort on the
Plumridge Project (c. 2,200km2), where it is exploring for nickel, copper and gold. SEG considers the
ground to be highly prospective for massive sulphide nickel mineralization such as that found at the nearby
Nova deposit by Sirius Resources NL. The company is progressing exploration in a thorough and
methodical fashion with a view to drilling nickel targets by early-mid 2014.
The company is utilising consulting firm Newexco to aid in Segues nickel sulphide exploration. Newexco
was responsible for the discovery of Western Areas Flying Fox T0 - T7 deposits and Spotted Quoll, as well
as Sirius’s Nova-Bollinger deposit. At the southern end of its Fraser Range tenements, Segue also has the
Deralinya project (1,300km2), which the company considers to be prospective for gold, base metals,
mineral sands and uranium.
In addition, the company has a 340km2 project in northern WA called Pardoo, which is considered
prospective for nickel-copper-PGE’s as well as iron ore. The project already contains the Highway
nickel-copper deposit which has an Inferred JORC compliant resource of 23.0Mt @ 0.41% nickel, 0.13%
copper and 0.03% cobalt, using a 0.3% nickel cut-off.

Background

The Fraser Range region in WA’s Southeast was previously considered difficult to explore due to its
relative remoteness, significant sand cover with poor outcrop, and access issues due to sand dunes, salt
lakes and thick scrub. However, the region has still seen c.50 years of sporadic work by juniors, majors, as
well as academics. The discoveries of the Tropicana gold deposit by AngloGold in 2005 and Sirius
Resources Nova nickel-copper deposit in mid 2012 confirmed the prospectivity of the region and
prompted a sizeable increase in exploration activity for both gold and base metals.

Due to the large areal extent covering a broad range of geological domains, with a favourable structural
regime, the region is considered prospective for a range of different deposit styles including:
Structurally controlled gold (e.g. Tropicana, Hercules, Beachcomber, Corvette)

Intrusive related Ni, Cu, PGE’s (e.g. Nova, Bollinger)
Palaeodrainage uranium (e.g. Mulga Rocks)
Mineral Sands, Lignite, and Coal.

Nova-Bollinger Discovery (Sirius Resources NL)
Sirius’s Nova nickel-copper mineralization is hosted by a gabbroic intrusion which presents itself as an
‘eye’ shaped bulge in the otherwise strongly linear magnetic fabric of the Albany Fraser Complex. The

Page87of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.deposit was found by a combination of soil and aircore bedrock sampling, high resolution magnetic and
ground EM surveys.

Deeper drilling of coincident ground EM conductors and bedrock nickel anomalies intersected massive
nickel sulphide mineralization at around 150m below surface. Nova-Bollinger has a global JORC compliant
resource of 14.6mt @ 2.2% nickel, 0.9% copper, & 0.08% cobalt, containing 325kt of nickel, 134kt of
copper and 11kt of cobalt. Sirius is currently completing a definitive feasibility study on the project with
lowest quartile cash costs over a 10 year mine life. Average annual production is targeted at 28kt of nickel,
11kt of copper and 940t of cobalt.

We understand that Sirius Resources interprets the mineralization at Nova to be related to a feeder zone
structure, caused by a late stage intrusion. Other key aspects of the Nova deposit that are relevant for
nickel sulphide exploration in the region include:

The deposit is adjacent to a major structure,

The mineralization is associated with a late-stage intrusion which made use of a steep strike-slip fault,

A mafic cumulate host rock,

The deposit has a marker horizon of a contact metamorphic areole of the intrusive pipe and
The ore is located on the sediment-mafic contact

EXPLORATION OVERVIEW

Plumridge Project

Segue acquired its Fraser Range tenements in late 2013, for $200,00 in cash and $1,100,000 in SEG
shares. The majority of SEG’s Fraser Range ground holding is owned 100%, except for four tenements in
the Plumridge Nickel and Gold project area. These are subject to a farm-in joint venture (JV) with
International Goldfields Ltd. The JV involves Segue earning a 60% interest by spending $1.0 million by 31
January 2015.

Across the tenements, Segue has a pipeline of prospects ranging from grass roots to advanced
exploration. The company has a philosophy of continuously prioritizing targets at each step of the
process, with the less prospective targets progressively dropped, allowing more focused work to be
conducted on a smaller number of more prospective targets. The Company is also conscious of
minimising exploration risk by continually refining targets and methods at each stage of the process,
thereby maximising potential for success whilst minimising potential for wasted costs.

The tenements are unencumbered with no Native Title claimants, with no nature reserves and no pastoral
leases, making exploration access and approvals faster than would otherwise be the case. The Plumridge
project is the main focus of exploration for Segue, though broken into two separate prospects, Plumridge
Nickel and Plumridge Gold. Plumridge Nickel is considered prospective for nickel, copper and platinum
group elements (PGE’s), similar to that of the Nova-Bollinger deposit, located c.120km south-west.
Plumridge Gold primarily has a gold focus.

Plumridge Nickel

Segue has completed a thorough desktop study of the previous exploration work, known geology and
geophysics. The work focused on the key aspects that SEG considers important to the discovery of Nova,
including late stage intrusive crosscutting the regional fabric and the proximity to a major regional
structure. Significantly, Segue has 100m line spaced aeromagnetic data over its tenements, which is
crucial in the identification of Nova-style eye structures. We understand that the publicly available 400m
spaced aeromagnetic data of the Albany Fraser Complex is too coarse to conclusively identify Nova and
similar eye structures.

By utilising their 100m spaced aeromagnetic dataset, reprocessed by Newexco to enhance Nova patterns,
Segue has identified 16 features which they believe exhibit the same geophysical response as that of
Nova-Bollinger. Follow up work involves the commencement of ground based activities of:

Aircore drill holes to penetrate the largely transported cover over each of the 16 eye targets to test for
Nova-style mafic host rocks and geochemistry,

Ground EM to identify potential Nova-type conductor-bearing intrusives,

Follow up close-spaced aircore drilling to test or identify coincident surface bedrock nickel anomalies and

Page88of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Fixed and Moving Loop Transient EM surveys over the highest priority Nova like eye features.

The EM surveys are designed to identify intrusive-hosted conductive bodies down to a depth of around
500m below surface. If any such bodies are highlighted, follow up deeper drill testing is planned, likely in
2H 2014.
Plumridge Gold
The Plumridge Gold project had previously been explored for gold by Corvette Resources (now
International Goldfields), including the Corvette prospect, though minimal base metals exploration was
done. The Corvette prospect is a +5km long region of anomalous gold mineralization, with multiple +1g/t
gold intercepts in drilling, located c.60km southwest of the +5Moz Tropicana deposit. Whilst substantial
drilling was undertaken, Corvette Resources was unable to effectively delineate the mineralization.
Since the acquisition of the project, Segue has undertaken a detailed review of previous drilling results
and geology aided by the use of oriented diamond drill-core. This review has allowed the Company to
gain a better understanding of the local and district-scale structures associated with the gold
mineralization in the immediate area around the Corvette prospect.
Segue has identified that the high-grade gold-bearing veins trend east to east-north east and are hosted
by a package of felsic to mafic gneisses intruded by late-stage potassic pegmatites.

These details are key as:

Almost all of the historic drilling was oriented east-west, more or less parallel to the strike of the high grade
veins. Ideally drilling should be oriented perpendicular to strike to maximise the representativeness of drill
intersections to the mineralized system as a whole.
Beadell Resource’s Hercules Gold Project, proximal to the +5Moz Tropicana gold deposit, is hosted by
late stage potassic pegmatites within a mixed gneissic package, suggesting Corvette has a favourable
host rock for this style of mineralization.

In addition, SEG is re-analysing over 16,000 drill samples using a Portable Infrared Mineral Analyser
(PIMA) to build up a map of the different alteration styles associated with the gold mineralization and use it
as a vector to mineralization.
PIMA does this by testing for changes in mineral alteration chemistry associated with gold mineralization.
The use of PIMA is relatively fast and cost effective and the company plans to use it on the large number
drill chip samples from previous exploration, with analysis to be completed by the end of August 2014.
Segue will then integrate the knowledge gained from the PIMA and structural studies with a view to
defining new targets ready for drilling at the completion of the nickel drilling programs.

Deralinya Project

Segue owns the Deralinya project 100%, which consists of 4 tenements covering 1,298km2. The projects
are located at the southern end of the Fraser Range group and lie on the Central Biranup Zone of the
Albany Fraser Orogen. The project is considered highly prospective for gold deposits due to the high
degrees of geological complexity and proximity to major regional structures that change orientation,
forming what Segue calls an ‘S bend’.

In addition, Segue considers the project to be prospective for minerals sands as well as
palaeodrainage/salt lake hosted Mulga Rocks style uranium mineralization. We understand that the
Company is undertaking a structural and desktop review of the project to ascertain exploration going
forward. However, whilst Segue considers the project to be highly prospective, we expect the focus to
remain on the Plumridge projects, and would not be surprised if SEG sought to joint venture the projects
out.

Other Assets

Pardoo

The Pardoo project is located in the Pilbara region of WA, c.120km east-northeast of Port Hedland. The
project covers c.340km2, and is prospective for nickel and iron ore. However, the main focus of the
company is on the Plumridge projects, and consequently the Pardoo projects are considered lower
priority.

Pardoo Nickel

Page89of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The project contains magmatic and shear-hosted nickel, copper and PGE’s and is considered prospective
for nickel sulphide mineralization. A JORC compliant nickel resource at the Highway Prospect was
completed in 2010 which totalled 23.0Mt @ 0.41% nickel, 0.13% copper and 0.03% cobalt (Inferred),
using a 0.3% nickel cut-off.
Pardoo Iron Ore
Pardoo is considered prospective for magnetite style iron ore mineralization. Significantly for a magnetite
project, Pardoo is located close to key infrastructure such as rail, gas and electric power, given the often
capital intense nature of magnetite developments.

Magnetite mineralization has been identified within a mafic gabbro host rock, and is likely magmatic in
nature, as opposed to many of the sedimentary style deposits in the Pilbara. Metallurgical test work has
been completed on historical diamond core drilling which indicated the potential to generate a magnetite
concentrate with grades of up to 69.1% iron with an average of 66% Fe. However, concentrate mass
recovery is generally low averaging 14%, but is correlated with iron grade.

CORPORATE
As at 30 September, 2013, SEG had $1.0m in cash, and no debt. Post this, the company paid $0.2m as
part of the Fraser Range project transaction, and issued 550m SEG shares to the vendors. As at 16
December 2013, the company had 1,086.9m shares on issue, of which 500m are escrowed until 13
December 2014. In addition, Segue has 11.8m options exercisable at $0.051 by November 2014, as well
as 25.0m options exercisable at $0.01 by February 2018.

PEER ANALYSIS

Following the discovery of Nova-Bollinger, the Fraser Range region has seen a significant jump in junior
exploration activity. We note that many of these explorers have indicated the presence of the ‘eye’
geophysical structures. We would caution that whilst this is promising, other criteria are likely to be
required including;

The presence of a late stage mafic (not felsic) intrusive into an existing strong regional fabric

Localised EM conductors and

Close proximity to a major regional structure.
Whilst there has been some promising early stage exploration, we do not see any company having
replicated SIR’s success as yet.
We note that whilst SEG has the third largest ground holding amongst peers, the company has a below
mid-range market capitalisation. We see this as a result of Segue being a relatively new entrant to the
Fraser Range region, with no fieldwork completed to date. As targets are refined, fieldwork commences
and drilling programs draw closer, we expect to see interest in SEG’s activities to increase, with the
potential for an increase in market activity.

DIRECTORS AND MANAGEMENT

Steven Michael - Managing Director

Mr Michael has extensive experience in the global resources sector specialising in corporate finance and
equity capital markets. He has over 15 years’ experience in natural resources with RBC Capital Markets,
Macquarie Bank and NM Rothschild & Sons. Mr Michael holds a B.Com and is a Member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants in Australia.

Dr Howard Carr - Technical Director
Dr Carr is a mineral exploration geologist with extensive experience in gold, PGE’s, nickel, iron ore,
phosphate and tungsten projects in diverse geographies including Australia, South Africa, China and
Burkina Faso. Dr Carr was awarded the Jubilee Medal from the South African Geological Society for his
work on the Bushveld Complex in South Africa. Dr Carr has a PhD in Economic Geology (UWA) and a
Graduate Diploma of Management from the Australian Institute of Management.

Nicholas Ong - Non-Executive Director

Mr Ong was a Principal Adviser at the ASX in Perth and brings seven years’ experience in listing rules
compliance and corporate governance to the board. Mr Ong was an active member of the ASX JORC
Group and has overseen the admission of in excess of 100 companies to the official list of the ASX. Mr

Page90of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Ong is a member of Chartered Secretaries Australia and has a MBA from the University of Western
Australia.
Matthew Foy - Non-Executive Director and Company Secretary

Mr. Foy, previously a Senior Adviser at the ASX, has six years’ experience in facilitating the compliance of
listed companies. Mr. Foy is a qualified Chartered Secretary and has reviewed and approved the listing of
over 40 companies during his tenure at the ASX. Mr. Foy is also Company Secretary of ASX-listed
Stonehenge Metals Limited, SWW Energy Limited and Auroch Minerals NL.

Mr Foy is a member of Chartered Secretaries Australia, has a Graduate Diploma (Applied Finance) from
FINSIA and a B.Com from the University of Western Australia.

RISK ANALYSIS

Exploration Risk: Mineral exploration is inherently high risk and there is the potential that SEG’s
exploration programs may fail to define the proposed mineralization style and/or any potentially economic
mineralization.

Financial Position: With an estimated <$0.8m in cash post transaction, and requiring to spend $1.0m on
the Plumridge JV by early 2015, the company will need to bolster its capital position in our opinion, or else
risk not completing its obligations for its share of Plumridge. Consequently, we expect the company to
come to market to raise the necessary funds to pay for the work on Plumridge, as well as on its other
projects.

Peer Underperformance: We see the underperformance of peer explorers or negative issues surrounding
the Nova-Bollinger development as having the potential to adversely affect market sentiment and lead to
lower valuations for SEG.
Commodity Risks: Whilst the company is not financially exposed to movements in base and precious
metals prices as it does not have any production at this stage, movements in these metal prices are likely
to impact sentiment towards the company and its projects.
Market Risks: Further declines in equity markets may continue to put pressure on junior resource
companies as investors switch out of risk into safe haven investments.

Metallurgical and Processing Risks: The mineralogy of mineral deposits may present challenging
metallurgical issues that may lead to an increase in operating and/or capital costs and adversely affect
project economics.

Typically, the more metals present in a mineralizing system, the more complex the extraction of each
metal. However, at this stage SEG is yet to define an economic deposit, so processing risk is negligible at
this point in time, though may become important in the future.

CONCLUSION

Given Segue’s large land position and prospective geology, we are favourably disposed to the methodical
exploration approach taken by the company. We also like the technical expertise being applied to the
work as evidenced by Dr Carr’s strong technical background and the engagement of Newexco as
consultants. Whilst there is no guarantee of exploration success, we see Segue as having a superior
technical approach to many of its peers, and whilst starting exploration later, we rate its ground position
and technical expertise higher than many of these peers. RM Research initiates coverage of Segue
Resources Ltd with a SPECULATIVE BUY.

For further information visit www.segueresources.com

Contact:

Mr Steven Michael Managing Director Segue Resources Limited Tel: +61 8 9486 4699 Email:
info@segueresources.com

[Editorial queries for this story should be sent to newswire@enpublishing.co.uk]

CO crssmg : Sirius Resources NL | seguer : Segue Resources Ltd
IN

i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2112 : Gold Ore/Silver Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying
cnatrd : Natural Reserves/Resources Discovery | npress : Press Releases | c24 : Capacity/Facilities | ccat
: Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types

NS

Page91of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB Electronic News Publishing Ltd.
AN Document ENPNEW0020140117ea1h0001v

Page92of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.