Rankin to run Packer’s CPH

HD
CR
WC 435 words
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

Rankin to run Packer’s CPH

The Australian

8 November 2014
07:36
theAustralian.com.au
NLAUSW
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

TD

DEUTSCHE Bank co-head of corporate banking and securities Robert Rankin plans to move to Asia to
run James Packer’s private company.

The German bank announced overnight that Rankin will leave his job in London in January to become
chief executive officer of Consolidated Press Holdings, which has investments in a range of assets across
a range of industries, more than half of which are now offshore.

“I’m honoured at the unique opportunity that has been provided to me by CPH and James Packer,” he
told The Australian this morning.

“I have known James as a client for many years and we share a truly global view and perspective through
an Australian prism. That is why I am attracted to this. I want to

spend more time in Australia.”
Mr Rankin said he would be “Asian based’’ which is expected to mean he will return to Hong Kong,
where he was previously based for Deutsche Bank before he moved to London.
Mr Packer plans to nominate Mr Rankin as a director of Asian gaming group Melco Crown Entertainment,
in which Mr Packer’s Crown Resorts owns a 33 per cent stake. He is expected to help drive the
company’s planned casino developments in the region, including Japan.

Mr Rankin will also be nominated by CPH to serve as co-chairman of Crown Resorts alongside Mr
Packer.

“I’m delighted Rob has decided to join,” Mr Packer told The Australian. “He is an international success
with a great reputation and standing in the Asia-Pacific region. I am very happy.’’

CPH also has a stake in RatPac Entertainment, a Hollywood film development and production finance
company, a 15 per cent stake in Chinese online job site Zhaopin, and a stake in booming US real estate
online site Zillow.

Its remaining Australian assets include a stake of just 9 per cent in the Ten Network and 75 per cent of ski
resort Perisher Blue, an asset it inherited in 1972, when CPH acquired Perisher Smiggins and the
Perisher Hotel through its purchase of Murray Publishers.
Its biggest challenge remains its wholly owned Pretty Girl Fashion Group, the owner of the 425-store
Rockmans womenswear chain as well as the Table Eight corporate uniforms business and W Lane
brand.

It also has a passive 25 per cent interest in fund management business Ellerston Capital.

In its latest results lodged with ASIC, CPH posted a net profit in the year to June 30 2013 of $181.4
million, up from the previous year’s result of $179.3.

NS

c411 : Management Moves | cslmc : Senior Level Management | c41 : Management | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : C&E Executive News
Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter

Page60of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB News Ltd.
AN

Document NLAUSW0020141108eab700004

Page61of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.