PwC revenue soars after client overhaul

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
PwC revenue soars after client overhaul

ANDREW WHITE
374 words
23 July 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
19
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

ACCOUNTING: Big four accounting firm PwC lifted its Australian revenue 7 per cent this year after a
major overhaul to build its client base.
Revenue topped $1.57 billion, helped by a range of acquisitions and organic growth from the
traditional parts of the business, with the government, health, digital and private clients businesses
leading the way.

PwC completed the purchase of the global Booz & Co consulting business — since rebranded
Strategy& — which delivered a number of new clients, PwC Australia chief executive Luke Sayers
said.
But the firm has also been pushing into digital markets with the purchases of Stamford Interactive
and Intunity and launched joint ventures in indigenous consulting, human resources and with its
Southeast Asia and China sister firms.

The result included a “very strong profit outcome’’ that was undisclosed. It confirms PwC as the
largest of the big four accounting firms in Australia and Mr Sayers said the firm was continuing to
stretch its lead over rivals through referrals from existing clients.

“We are really proud of our results and we have seen growth across all of them,’’ Mr Sayers said.
“But we are heading into a market that is very unpredictable.’’ The firm is in the middle of a four-year
overhaul to develop new growth areas, diversify its revenue and deepen links with the Asian region
through other firms in the PwC network.

Mr Sayers said digitalisation had been both a threat to accounting services and an opportunity to
provide new services to clients needing advice on how to respond to technological change such as
online sales and marketing.
The firm has built up a team of 100 staff specialising in digital change consulting as well as making
acquisitions.
Mr Sayers said the firm was seeking further acquisitions to deliver skills it did not have at the
moment and said businesses serving private clients and high net worth individuals would be a key
focus.

PwC bought the MGI Melbourne business in January to strengthen its offering in succession
planning, self-managed superannuation and advisory services for wealthy families, individuals and
private businesses.It has also launched the PwC Indigenous Consulting practice, which is
majority-owned by indigenous people.

CO
IN

prwth : PricewaterhouseCoopers
i836 : Accounting | iacc : Accounting/Consulting | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services

Page120of234©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

RE
PUB
AN

c151 : Earnings | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140722ea7n00017

Page121of234©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.