Yanzhou sees Yancoal’s note offer as a route to 100pc control

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Yanzhou sees Yancoal’s note offer as a route to 100pc control

Sarah-Jane Tasker, Resources
447 words
12 November 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
24
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

CHINESE giant Yanzhou has asked its shareholders to back its “major transaction” with Yancoal,
saying it could end up with a “possible acquisition”.
The Hong Kong-listed company has outlined to its shareholders that, through its agreement to take up
$US1.8 billion of Yancoal’s $US2.3bn subordinated capital note offer, it could end up with an almost
100 per cent stake in the Australian company.

“In the case that only the company will subscribe for its full pro rata entitlement of the convertible
hybrid bonds and all other Yancoal Australia shareholders do not ... the equity interest held by the
company in Yancoal will increase from 78 per cent to 98.8 per cent,” Yanzhou told its shareholders.
“The issue of such new Yancoal shares to the company will therefore constitute an acquisition of
equity interest upon conversion of the convertible hybrid bonds to be subscribed by the company.”
Yancoal revealed the $US2.3bn subordinated capital note offer on Monday — the largest note offer in
Australian corporate history — to repay debt and fund operations and growth. Under the offer, open to
all shareholders, Yancoal will issue 2.32112 subordinated capital notes for every 100 Yancoal shares
held. The notes will be treated as equity. Shares in Yancoal sank on the news and declined further
yesterday, by 6.25 per cent to 15c.
Hong Kong commodities trader Noble Group has a 13.8 per cent stake in Yancoal and is understood
to be annoyed it was kept in the dark about the offer until it was announced to the market.

A prospectus on the offer is not expected for a couple of weeks. If Noble Group, which also has a
marketing agreement with Yancoal, does not take up the offer, it will be diluted to a 0.7 per cent holding
in one of Australia’s largest listed pure coal plays. The commodities trader earned its interest in the
company when Yancoal took over Gloucester Coal in 2012, which Noble controlled.

Noble is believed to have been trying to get Yanzhou to agree on a deal to buy out the minority
shareholders after the Chinese group abandoned its takeover of Yancoal earlier this year.

In July last year, Yanzhou launched a non-binding proposal to mop up the 22 per cent of Yancoal it did
not own via a scheme of arrangement, with the view to then privatising the company.Yancoal chief
executive Reinhold Schmidt said this week that its independent board committee was tasked with
considering many options and the note offer was the most appropriate at this stage.

CO

IN
NS
RE
PUB

yaptyl : Yancoal Australia Limited | yankua : Yankuang (Group) Corp | ynzmn : Yanzhou Coal Mining
Co Ltd
i112 : Coal Mining Support Activities | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.

Page82of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AN

Document AUSTLN0020141111eabc0003i

Page83of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.