News
Commodities tumble as China seems to accepts slower growth

By James Herron and Joseph Ciolli, Bloomberg

Commodities tumble as China seems to accepts slower growth

SE
HD
BY
WC 1,222 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

22 September 2014
Futures
FUTURZ
English
Copyright 2014. The Alpha Pages, LLC

TD

Global stocks fell and commodities tumbled to a five-year low amid speculation China will accept slower
growth and officials from the world’s biggest economies warned of rising financial risks.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.4 percent at 9:42 a.m. in New York, after reaching a record last
week. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index lost 0.3 percent and the MSCI Emerging Markets Index slid 1.1
percent. French and Belgian government bonds gained the most in Europe and the Australian dollar led
currencies of commodity-producing nations lower. The yield on 10-year Treasuries was little changed at
2.58 percent. Silver retreated to the lowest level since July 2010 and copper tumbled 1.7 percent.

China’s Finance Minister Lou Jiwei said growth in Asia’s largest economy faces downward pressure and
reiterated that there won’t be major changes in policy in response to individual economic indicators. Group
of 20 finance chiefs and central bankers said low interest rates could lead to a potential increase in
financial-market risk, as major economies rely on monetary stimulus to bolster uneven growth.
“It looks like the Chinese government recognizes that the economic boom is over,” said Andrea Williams,
who helps oversee 50 billion pounds ($82 billion) of investments as head of European equities at Royal
London Asset Management Ltd. in London. “The country is settling down to a lower level of growth.”
Chinese Economy
China’s economy is growing in a stable way and operating within a reasonable range, Lou said in a
statement published on the People’s Bank of China website. Macroeconomic policy will focus on
“comprehensive” targets, particularly job growth and price stability, according to the statement.

His comments quelled speculation that weaker economic data will spur further stimulus in the world’s
second-biggest economy. A private gauge of Chinese manufacturing probably dropped for a second
month in September, economists in a Bloomberg survey said before a report tomorrow. Data last week
showed foreign direct investments decreased to a four-year low and home prices fell in all but two cities
tracked by authorities.

Lou “gave a real hint that the recent policy easing may actually be quite limited,” Stuart Beavis, head of
institutional equity derivatives at Vantage Capital Markets in Hong Kong, said by phone. “We’re not just
going to see this wall of money thrown at the Chinese slowdown.”

Fed Commitment

The S&P 500 rose 1.3 percent last week, reaching a record on Sept. 18, as economic data improved and
the Federal Reserve maintained a commitment to keep interest rates near zero for a “considerable time”
after asset purchases are completed in October. Central bank officials raised their median estimate for the
federal funds rate at the end of 2015 to 1.375 percent, compared with 1.125 percent in June.

“All the upward trends are intact, but it’s not uncommon to see a temporary pullback coming off a new
high,” John Fox, director of research at Fenimore Asset Management in Cobleskill, New York, said in a
phone interview. “Interest rates are low, corporate profits are good, valuations are fair and there’s still
M&A.”

Yahoo! Inc. dropped 3.2 percent after Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. lowered its rating on the Web-portal
company. Facebook Inc. and Twitter Inc. slid following Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.’s $21.8 billion share

Page92of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.sale last week. Alibaba slumped 3 percent in New York. Sigma-Aldrich Corp. jumped 34 percent after
Germany’s Merck KGaA agreed to buy the specialty-chemicals company for $17 billion.

European Shares

The Stoxx 600 declined after closing last week 0.3 percent away from a six-year high reached in June.
Commodities producers fell the most among 19 industry groups.

Tesco slumped to its lowest since 2003 as it started an investigation into accounting practices after a profit
overstatement. The U.K.’s biggest supermarket chain’s bond risk surged, with credit-default swaps
jumping as much as 20 basis points to 111 basis points, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.

Sulzer AG fell 3.6 percent after saying merger talks with Dresser-Rand Group Inc. are over. Siemens AG
agreed to buy the maker of compressors and turbines for the oil-and-gas industry. Cermaq ASA jumped
14 percent after Mitsubishi Corp. offered to buy it.

The Bloomberg Commodity Index dropped as much as 0.7 percent to the lowest level since July 2009.
Copper retreated 1.5 percent to $6,736 a metric ton and Brent crude fell 0.6 percent to $97.83 a barrel.

Silver Slumps
Silver declined as much as 2.9 percent to $17.325 an ounce and iron ore slipped to $79.48 a ton, the
lowest since futures began in Singapore in April 2013. Commodities are 12 percent lower this quarter,
heading for the biggest such loss since the financial crisis in 2008. China is the largest consumer of
energy and buyer of industrial metals.

The MSCI Emerging Markets Index slid 1.1 percent, extending its second week of declines to a six-week
low. The Hang SengChina Enterprises Index of mainland companies listed in Hong Kong fell 1.7 percent
to a two-month low.

The won strengthened 0.4 percent, the steepest gain since Aug. 22, after S&P raised South Korea’s
outlook to positive from stable. The MSCI AC Asia Pacific Index fell 0.8 percent to its lowest close since
June.

Russian Stocks

Russia’s Micex fell for a fourth day, sliding 0.7 percent. Stocks are headed for the longest run of losses
since July after the arrest of AFK Sistema’s billionaire owner Vladimir Evtushenko. The case against
Evtushenkov stems from a probe into OAO Bashneft, an oil producer that his holding company Sistema
acquired in 2009, the Investigative Committee said on Sept. 16. Sistema dropped 2.9 percent and
Bashneft retreated 5 percent.
Gains in French government bonds sent the 10-year yield three basis points lower to 1.36 percent, while
the rate on similar-maturity Belgian debt fell three basis points to 1.30 percent. Yields on 10-year U.S.
Treasuries lost one basis point to 2.57 percent after dropping four basis points last week. The rate on
similar maturity Japanese notes declined two basis points to 0.54 percent.

The Fed will keep interest rates near zero for a “considerable time” after asset purchases are completed,
most likely next month, it said last week as officials raised their median estimate for the federal funds rate
at the end of 2015.

G-20 officials said yesterday in a communique released in Cairns, Australia, that they “are mindful of the
potential for a build-up of excessive risk in financial markets, particularly in an environment of low interest
rates and low asset price volatility.” The ministers welcomed signs of strength some key economies while
noting “growth in the global economy is uneven.”

The rand dropped as much as 0.6 percent to 11.15 per dollar, the weakest level since Feb. 11. Australia’s
dollar lost 0.7 percent to 88.63 U.S. cents, also the weakest since February.

NS

RE

gpol : Domestic Politics | m11 : Equity Markets | mntdbt : National Government Debt/Bond Markets | gcat :
Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | mcat :
Commodity/Financial Market News | mgvdbt : Government Debt/Bond Markets | ncat : Content Types |
nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | singp : Singapore | skorea : South Korea | uk : United Kingdom | apacz :
Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China |
devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz :
European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | seasiaz : Southeast Asia | weurz : Western Europe

Page93of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IPD business (general)
PUB The Alpha Pages, LLC
AN

Document FUTURZ0020140923ea9m00004

Page94of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.