Sandalwood producer’s fortunes turn around

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Sandalwood producer’s fortunes turn around

ANDREW BURRELL, STRATEGY MATTERS
992 words
16 June 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
19
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

TFS shares have soared as analysts tip serious profits IT was only a year ago that Frank Wilson felt
“unloved”.
Back then, the chief executive and major shareholder of listed Perth-based sandalwood companyTFS
Corporation was facing a storm of protest from dissident investors over the group’s corporate
governance practices and general performance.

An attempt to roll the board sparked a series of ructions, culminating in a 36 per cent vote against the
remuneration report and the stigma of a second “strike” at a heated annual meeting last year. Worse,
TFS’s share price was languishing around 40c amid doubts over its ability to ever capitalise on the
surging global demand for the Indian sandalwood that it planned to harvest from its plantations in the
Kimberley.

And TFS had an enduring image problem after the collapse of forestry companies Timbercorp and
Great Southern, which also operated under managed investment schemes.

Now Wilson, who founded TFS in the mid-1990s and floated it in 2004, feels he is finally winning over
the sceptics. The share price has risen a spectacular 330 per cent in the past 12 months, making TFS
easily the best-performing stock in the ASX 300 over that period. Its market capitalisation has soared
to $500 million, valuing Wilson’s 16 per cent stake at a handy $80m.
The company has also just completed its first harvest — 15 years after the first trees in the Ord River
region were planted — and recently signed a lucrative supply contract with a US pharmaceutical
company that set the price of Indian sandalwood oil at a record $US4500 a kilogram.

Last month, TFS raised $67m from institutional investors to develop new plantations and expand on
the 7600ha it already owns or manages in the Kimberley, Northern Territory and Queensland. In other
words, the stars have aligned for TFS: it now has the largest area of Indian sandalwood in the world
just as prices are rising and customers are prepared to pay a premium for a long-term sustainable
supply.

“We certainly know what it’s like to be in the dark and unloved and bottom end,” says Wilson, a lanky
former tax lawyer who is descended from the famous Cullity timber family in Western Australia.
“Twelve months ago, it was a very different feeling. I was always very confident of where we were
going, and the company itself didn’t miss a beat, despite a lot of the noise from the outside.

“I think the major issue (behind the share price rise) has been the fact that we’ve got to our first
harvest, we’ve proved up the oil quality and we’ve proved up very lucrative supply contracts.

“I think we’ve also cleared up some of the corporate governance issues that we were perceived to
have, together with the fact that we’re a bit counter-cyclical to the resources cycle, which has tapered
off a bit, so people are looking for other growing companies.” Analysts say that with its first small but
successful harvest behind it, TFS is poised to make serious profits in the next decade given the

Page201of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.burgeoning demand for its product and a constrained global supply (Indian sandalwood is endangered
due to illegal logging around the world).
Demand for sandalwood oil is driven largely by the fragrance and pharmaceutical industries. It is also
highly prized in India and China for medicinal purposes and for use in incense.

TFS’s only real competitor is US hedge fund KKR, which snapped up about 2000ha of plantations in
the Kimberley from Elders last year.

Cannacord Genuity initiated coverage on TFS late last year with a “buy” recommendation and said last
month its target price for the stock was $3.34 — well above Friday’s close of $1.78. Argonaut
Securities has a target price of $2.25.

Wilson says the market has begun to back TFS because of its huge potential in coming years.

“We’ve got 7600ha in the ground now, so it’s very small in comparison to what’s coming in the future,”
he says. “Our harvest next year will also be small, but the harvest the year after that will be probably at
least six times bigger than this year’s harvest.

“So we soon start to get into some really meaningful harvests in 2016, and they will build up to much
larger harvests as we get into the next decade. The step-up in 2016 is a times six; by the time we get
to 2020 it would be a times 100.
“Our earnings will be in the hundreds of millions of dollars per annum when we get to the 2020s.” Of
course, these sorts of agricultural schemes are never free of risk, including from fires, floods, cyclones
and the like. But the company’s overall risk has diminished, especially since it has established a
so-called “soil to oil” business model under which it owns the intellectual property for seeding, planting,
managing, harvesting, processing and selling its sandalwood oil.

Wilson has been chief executive since 2007 but says he will hand over the role to someone else soon.
In response to the corporate governance concerns, he stood down as chairman last year and handed
over to Patrick O’Connor. Cricket legend Adam Gilchrist quit the board last year but remains a brand
ambassador and is a long-term investor.
“Like any good team, you’ve got to have rejuvenation, and we’re no different,” he says.“Obviously I’m
not going to be CEO forever so that’ll change in the future. I wouldn’t say next week or next month but I
think the company is growing to a point we’ve got a really outstanding management team now. It’s at a
point where the company will be able to move on from me being the centre of it.”

CO
IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

tfscrl : TFS Corporation Limited
i0 : Agriculture | i02 : Forestry/Logging
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ccpgvn : Corporate Governance/Investor Relations | c151 : Earnings
| c15 : Performance | c41 : Management Issues | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin :
FC&E Industry News Filter
india : India | nterry : Northern Territory | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
austr : Australia | bric : BRIC Countries | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | indsubz : Indian Subcontinent | sasiaz : Southern Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140615ea6g00046

Page202of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.