Foreigners look to city fringe

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Foreigners look to city fringe

Michael Bleby
626 words
13 May 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
37
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Overseas buyers are starting to look beyond apartments in Melbourne's CBD to suburbs like
Richmond, Abbotsford and South Melbourne, pushing up prices in the city's inner ring, developer Sam
Tarascio says.
In comments that suggest the distinction between the offshore and local market – a line the property
industry is keen to promote – is blurring, the managing director of Melbourne-based Salta said that
while predominantly Asian offshore buyers have concentrated on purchasing property in the city
centre, they are becoming familiar with other areas like the city fringe and are starting to realise the
opportunities in those places.

"As you become more familiar, you tend to expand your horizons. I think that is happening a little bit
in Melbourne," Mr Tarascio said in an interview with The Australian Financial Review.

"In the past, because of the interest in overseas buyers predominantly for the CBD, there wasn't that
competition from overseas buyers in that inner ring. That's now starting to occur."
If not good news for would-be first-home buyers in the inner suburbs, it is positive for the company,
which last week unveiled its completed 500-unit Green Square development in Abbotsford.
Melbourne apartment prices are rising and additional offshore competition is likely to push them
higher.

Mr Tarascio said properties had increased $1000 per square metre from the average figure of
$8500 per square metre for which they sold in that development two years ago.

The much promoted distinction that offshore investors were buying inner city high-rise apartments
while local buyers were buying lower-density apartments in the inner and middle rings was no longer
the case, he said.

"It's starting to blur," he said.

Offshore investor expansion into the fringe is, in part, a result of fewer suitable development sites in
the CBD. as seen in the $17,125 a square metre paid last month for a Southbank site in Melbourne.
Mr Tarascio's comments come as the Real Estate Institute of Australia urged the government not to
tamper with investment rules around property purchases. In a submission to a parliamentary inquiry
into foreign investment in residential real estate, the institute has dismissed the influence of foreign
buyers in the established home market – and their effect on first-home buyers – as "negligible".
An increasing offshore focus on fringe areas did not mean an end to purchases of inner-city
apartments, said Mr Tarascio, who recently returned from a trip to Kuala Lumpur, Singapore and
Shanghai. His trip – intended to understand the motivation of offshore purchasers that has driven the
growth of CBD apartments – left him convinced that demand for Australian units was strong.

Page46of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.While demand was strong from families wanting to buy accommodation for a child going into the
Australian education system, investors were also attracted because it was a less risky market in
Australia, he said.

Buying apartments is riskier in all three of those cities because buyers are required to make progress
payments. If the developer fails, that money is lost.
Not only was this a risk for the purchaser, but it made banks reluctant to lend, he said.
"Could I convince myself to buy property in those markets and why would I buy property when I
could purchase in the Melbourne market or Australian market generally?" he said. "I couldn't
convince myself."

The most likely advantage of buying would have been the capital growth from those properties, but
efforts by authorities in China and Singapore to quell the demand driving that capital growth, by
limiting the number of properties investors could buy or imposing tax obligations, were reducing that
benefit, he said.

"It is quite an advantage of buying in Melbourne to buying over there."

IN
RE

PUB
AN

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140512ea5d00028

Page47of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.