Baidu opens to Aussie business

Baidu opens to Aussie business

The Australian

HD
CR
WC 338 words
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

25 September 2014
00:00
theAustralian.com.au
NLAUSW
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

TD

DOMINANT China search engine Baidu will offer Australian business access to more than half a billion
Chinese consumers.

At a launch event in Sydney yesterday, Baidu said it would partner with Belimark Australia, which would
promote the benefits of Australians offering targeted search engine advertising in China.

Belimark will offer comprehensive consulting and support to Australian advertisers.
Another firm, Incremental Marketing Group, has been contracted by Belimark to build targeted marketing
campaigns for Australian customers with travel and accommodation, education, real estate and retail for
Chinese search engine users.

Baidu spokesman Charles Song said the launch into Australia was part of a global marketing strategy,
with Baidu also expanding into Indonesia, Thailand, Egypt and Brazil.
Baidu’s strategy went beyond giving Australians access to China’s market to analysing the trade between
Australia and China and providing analytics to local firms.
“We really want to help clients to analyse the market and introduce them to the Chinese people,” he said.
According to Baidu, two out of three Chinese citizens search the internet to plan their trips and
purchases.
Last year, more than 98.2 billion trips were made by Chinese travellers and more than $110 billion spent.

Belimark Australia marketing director Max Qi said Australian companies previously needed local
knowledge to crack China’s market.

“Before, if you wanted to use Baidu to advertise your business, you needed to understand the culture,
understand the Chinese language, appoint a Chinese agent in China, and then communications and
business was still very hard to do.”
Baidu said it had achieved an 83 per cent share of China’s search engine market on personal computers
and a 68 per cent share on mobiles. China’s internet population was estimated at 564 million in 2012.

Baidu’s search engine handles more than 6bn search requests each day and
raked in $US5.12bn in internet sales advertising revenue in China last year. Its nearest competitor, online
shopping site Taobao, operated by Alibaba Group, snared $US4.6bn.

CO
IN
NS
RE

badiu : Baidu Inc.
i8395464 : Internet Search Engines | iint : Internet/Online | itech : Technology
gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | china : China | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | nswals : New South Wales

Page131of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB News Ltd.
AN

Document NLAUSW0020140925ea9o0000d

Page132of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.