Evercore Private Funds Group Strengthens Asia Pacific Presence

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Evercore Private Funds Group Strengthens Asia Pacific Presence

640 words
1 November 2014
08:44
Press Association National Newswire
PRESSA
English
(c)2014, The Press Association, All Rights Reserved

Business Editors, Financial Editors

NEW YORK--(Business Wire)--October 31, 2014

Evercore (NYSE:EVR) announced today that its Private Funds Group has made two new hires in its
Hong Kong office, expanding the team’s current activities in the Asia Pacific region.
Ian Bell joins the firm as a Managing Director from Credit Suisse and will lead the Group’s distribution
and origination efforts across the Asia Pacific region. Mr. Bell will be supported in Hong Kong by Manda
Chan, who joins from MVision Private Equity Advisers.

Richard Anthony, CEO of the Private Funds Group, said, “We are delighted to welcome Ian and Manda to
the team. As fundraising for and from the region continues to strengthen, we believe our presence in the
Asia Pacific region is key in offering both our GP and LP clients a comprehensive and truly global
advisory service.”

Mr. Bell joins from Credit Suisse where he was previously responsible for Institutional Investor Coverage
across the firm’s Asia Pacific client base. Mr. Bell has a proven track record of partnering with many of
the region’s largest Pensions, Insurers and Sovereign Wealth Funds in providing investment solutions
across Private Equity, Credit, Infrastructure, Real Estate, Hedge Funds and other alternative asset
classes. He holds a First Class Honours Degree in Quantitative Finance from the University of Western
Australia and is currently completing an Executive M.B.A. from both Northwestern University’s Kellogg
School of Management and the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology. Prior to joining
Evercore, Mr. Bell spent 8 years in Credit Suisse’s Investment Banking Division in both the Hong Kong
and Sydney offices. In his time there, Mr. Bell held a number of senior client coverage roles and was
ultimately responsible for multi-asset coverage of Pensions, Insurers and Sovereign Wealth Funds across
the Asia Pacific Region. Mr. Bell started his Investment banking career in both the Sydney and London
offices of Deutsche Bank’s Global Market’s Division, where he was responsible for coverage of
institutional clients on interest rate and credit derivative products.

Ian Bell said, “The Evercore Private Funds Group has built an enviable reputation in our industry as one
of the few high quality placement groups with a truly global reach. I look forward to continuing to build on
that theme as we continue to strengthen our relationships with clients on the ground here in Asia.”
Ms. Chan is a graduate of Pennsylvania State University with a B.Sc. in Finance and a minor in Supply
Chain. Prior to joining Evercore, Ms. Chan was an Associate at MVision Private Equity Advisers where
she worked on project management of various fundraises across the Asia Pacific region, and was also
responsible for coverage of many leading Limited Partners across Greater China. Ms. Chan began her
career within the Restructuring Advisory Services of KPMG. Ms. Chan is fluent in Mandarin, Cantonese
and English.

About Evercore
Evercore is a leading independent investment banking advisory firm. Evercore’s Investment Banking
business advises its clients on mergers, acquisitions, divestitures, restructurings, financings, public
offerings, private placements and other strategic transactions and also provides institutional investors with
high quality equity research, sales and trading execution that is free of the conflicts created by

Page210of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.proprietary activities. Evercore’s Investment Management business comprises wealth management,
institutional asset management and private equity investing. Evercore serves a diverse set of clients
around the world from 21 offices in North America, Europe, South America and Asia. More information
about Evercore can be found on the Company’s website at www.evercore.com.

Contact:

Investor:

Evercore
Robert B. Walsh, 212-857-3100

Chief Financial Officer

or

Business:

Evercore Private Funds Group

Richard Anthony, +44-207-290-3297

CEO

or

Media:

The Abernathy MacGregor Group, for Evercore

Dana Gorman, 212-371-5999

CO
IN

NS
RE

tuowap : The University of Western Australia
iwealth : Private Banking/Wealth Management | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking | i831 : Financial
Investments | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
hkong : Hong Kong | china : China | nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz
: Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
FINANCE

IPD
PUB The Press Association Limited
AN

Document PRESSA0020141031eaav006mx

Page211of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.