CHINA : Bega Cheese secures Chongqing supermarket supply contract.

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
CHINA: Bega Cheese secures Chongqing supermarket supply contract.

Hannah Abdulla
560 words
24 September 2014
Just-Food
JUFOO
English
© 2014 Aroq Limited. All rights reserved

Australian dairy firmBega Cheese has secured a contract to supply Chinese retail group Chongqing
General Trading Group with UHT milk.

Bega said the deal is expected to generate revenues of approximately A$100m (US$88.7m) over five
years.

Bega CEO Aidan Coleman said: "The company is very pleased to form this partnership with CGTG and
it is a strong endorsement of the reputation of the quality of Bega product and the bio security of
Australia as a dairy producing nation. We see this as a first step in developing a comprehensive UHT
offering in the future."
Australian and New Zealand firms are looking to increase their presence in China amid growing
consumption of dairy products.
The Bega brandhas been sold in China since 2000 and Bega Cheesehas exported milk powder, infant
formula and creamcheese to the market.

press release follows:
As part of the continuing international development of Bega Cheese Limited (Bega), the company
todaysigned a supply and distribution agreement with one of China’s leading retail groups, Chongqing
GeneralTrading Group (CGTG) whereby Bega will supply CGTG with Bega branded UHT milk produced
in Australiafor distribution in China.
The agreement is expected to generate revenues of approximately $100 million dollars over five
years.Bega and CGTG see this as the basis for a broader commercial relationship in the future.
The Chongqing municipality in Southwest China is one of the fastest growing regions in China. It has
apopulation of 32 million people and GDP growth in 2013 of 12.3%. CGTG is the leading retail group in
theregion, with a 50% retail market share across food and general merchandise.

On hand in Chongqing from Bega for the formal singing were Barry Irvin &ndash; Executive Chairman,
AidanColeman &ndash; CEO and Paul van Heerwaarden &ndash; General Manager Sales and
Marketing.
Mr Coleman said that “the company is very pleased to form this partnership with CGTG and it is a
strongendorsement of the reputation of the quality of Bega product and the bio security of Australia as a
dairyproducing nation. We see this as a first step in developing a comprehensive UHT offering in the
future”.
Dr He, Chairman of CGTG, said his company was excited to partner with an iconic Australian company
likeBega Cheese.
“China’s consumption of milk and dairy products is increasing rapidly. CGTG is delighted to work with
Begato satisfy that need”.

Page145of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The signing of the Chongqing agreement represents an expansion of Bega Cheese’s products entering
theChinese market. The company has had a presence in the Chinese market for over 14 years, the
Bega brandhas been sold in China since 2000 and Bega Cheese through its wholly owned subsidiary
Tatura MilkIndustries has been a major Australian exporter of high value milk powder, infant formula and
creamcheese to the Chinese market.
Executive Chairman Barry Irvin commented “we are very proud of our long term business relationships
andwe look forward to a long term relationship with CGTG. We are confident our relationship will grow
andthat CGTG’s many customers will be delighted with the excellent quality and range of Bega products
theyare able to purchase.”
original source: Bega Cheese

This article was originally published on just-food.com on 22 September 2014. For authoritative and timely
food business information visit http://www.just-food.com.

NS

RE

CO
IN

becoop : Bega Cheese Ltd
i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i641 : Food Retailing | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i413 : Dairy
Products | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i654 : Specialty Stores | icnp : Consumer Goods | ifood : Food
Products | iretail : Retail
c33 : Contracts/Orders | c333 : Non-governmental Contracts | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | chongp : Chongqing | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
IPD
Bega Cheese
PUB Aroq Limited
AN

Document JUFOO00020140924ea9o0002v

Page146of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.