Backing the right horse in small miners race

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Backing the right horse in small miners race

Tony Kaye
497 words
13 July 2014
The Sunday Times (Perth)
SUNTIP
SundayTimes
66
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

THE mining boom is over, isn’t it? Last month’s sharp fall in the iron-ore price has sent shock waves
through the mining sector, spurring hundreds of job losses in WA.
Small iron-ore miners, which have high production costs and operate on low profit margins, are being
edged closer to the iron wall.

On Wednesday, the Kimberley Metals Group, which runs the 67 million-tonne Ridges iron ore mine
near Kununurra, said it would be laying off 40 workers.
But if you’re worried the mining boom is coming to an end, think again. Many small miners, widely
regarded as “penny dreadfuls”, have been outperforming the broader market and some have delivered
big returns to stock speculators over one or two days. These stocks have done little off their own bat,
other than being involved in the right metal at the right time.

They are benefiting from the improving market for base metals – a group of commodities with
widespread uses in industrial processes, such as making stainless steel (nickel), electronics and
construction (copper) and steel hardening (tungsten).

Tin is another industrial metal sharing in what appears to be a widespread recovery driven by an end to
fears that China’s growth will slow significantly, the US recovery will stall, and unsavoury business
deals done in China’s commodity trading sector will corrupt the entire metal industry.
But fossicking for returns among small mining stocks is not for the faint-hearted. Stocks that can rise 30
per cent or more in one day can, just as easily, be down by the same or more the next day. Like mining
itself, it’s a very dangerous game.

Mirabela Nickel, suspended last October when the nickel price was much lower, soared from a low of
1.6c to a high of 44c on July 4. On Wednesday, it was trading back at 17c.

But rising metal prices are just one factor in the new-found optimism for small miners.
Eureka Report’s mining commentator Tim Treadgold points to an expectation of widespread merger
and acquisition activity that often occurs at this stage of the minerals cycle, plus takeovers.
“Chinese investors have been first to play the takeover card, snapping up the iron ore project
developer Aquila Resources and the moribund gold explorer, Bullabulling, in deals which management
of both target companies described as opportunistic and undervalued – but which investors thought
represented good value, which is why they took the cash,” says Treadgold. “Entry into the micro end of
the mining market, where some stocks are valued at less than $1 million and about 600 are valued at
less than $5 million, is not investing. It is outright speculation.”He says buying small exploration stocks
can be like betting on horses. The trick is to find undervalued stocks with the potential for exceptional
returns by being in the right base metal at the right time. Good luck.

Page156of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
mnonfr : Non-ferrous Metals | credun : Lay-offs/Redundancies | c42 : Labor/Personnel Issues | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | m14 : Commodity Markets | m142 : Metals Markets | mcat :
Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E
Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
perth : Perth | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | waustr : Western
Australia
News Ltd.
Document SUNTIP0020140712ea7d0000s

Page157of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.