POWER OF 3 Innovation points the way ahead

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
POWER OF 3 Innovation points the way ahead

EUGENE BOISVERT
451 words
13 July 2014
The Advertiser
ADVTSR
Advertiser
27
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

AN employment boom at transport firm STC Logistics is a perfect example of a company taking
advantage of the characteristics of Adelaide’s north to grow and prosper.

Pooraka’s Lifestyle Bakery and fashion label Casper + Pearl are also out there proving that
opportunities exist for those with a vision.

The Sunday Mail spoke to these businesses as part of the Northern Fightback campaign, launched
this week to help drive economic growth in the northern suburbs.

STC has grown its staff from 80 to 220 in the past two years on the back of the opening of the
Northern Expressway.
Staff at its Penfield Rail Freight Centre send goods such as wine, food and timber to Western
Australia, with up to 20 trains – each up to 1.8km long – leaving the site each week carrying freight,
much of it brought in on trucks using the expressway.
The company’s 90ha site alongside the Adelaide to Perth railway line dwarfs STC’s old 8ha site at
Regency Park, but state manager Andy Rehmann says there is still room for “considerable expansion”
of the $60 million headquarters. “There’s a lot of benefit coming out north,” Mr Rehmann said.
“It’s the gateway to the Barossa and Clare Valley. This site was sold at a low cost and it’s far from
residential issues (like noise and traffic).” In the past year, STC has employed 40 extra people as part
of an expansion of its container terminal from 6000sq m to 40,000sq m.

Thirty-five of those people were from the northern suburbs, including some former Holden workers.

“The north has created some big wins for the people we employ because there really are some good
people out here,” Mr Rehmann says.
Michael Horrocks responded to the increasing demand for gluten-free bread by opening Lifestyle
Bakery in Pooraka in 1998.

He now employs 60 people.

“We wanted somewhere that was convenient, not too far out ... Pooraka we thought was a good place
to set up a business,” Mr Horrocks said.

Stacey Hendrickson was 18 when she started her own fashion label, Casper + Pearl, which she still
runs from her home in Munno Para.
Now at 22, she has dresses stocked in boutiques throughout Australia, New York, Canada and Hong
Kong. Ms Hendrickson said being able to sell and promote her outfits online gave her opportunities
that just would not have been there a few years earlier.

Page125of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“There were people saying ‘you can’t get into fashion’, especially around here, but you need to make
your own opportunities,” Ms Hendrickson said. “Work hard and believe in yourself.”NORTHERN
FIGHTBACK

NS
RE
PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News | gfas : Fashion | glife : Living/Lifestyle
austr : Australia | saustr : South Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document ADVTSR0020140712ea7d0004m

Page126of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.