BHP mulls $20bn demerger plan

BHP mulls $20bn demerger plan

The Australian

HD
CR
WC 482 words
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

1 April 2014
14:04
theAustralian.com.au
NLAUSW
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

TD

BHP Billiton has indirectly confirmed that a $20 billion demerger of non-core assets is an option it has
under active consideration.

While not directly addressing the speculation that a demerger to shareholders had become the preferred
divestment route for the previously flagged sale of the non-core assets, BHP did not dismiss it out of hand
either.

Individual asset sales to trade buyers, or the emerging and well-funded private equity funds, such as the
X2 fund headed by former BHP and Xstrata executive Mick Davis, remains the most likely outcome,
although a demerger of a new company loaded up with the non-core assets that do not fit BHP’s
simplification plan under new chief executive Andrew Mackenzie is now clearly under consideration.

BHP said in response to the market speculation on the demerger that “simplification of our portfolio is a
priority and is something we have pursued for several years’’.

“In the last two years alone, the group has announced or completed divestments in Australia, the United
States, Canada, South Africa and the United Kingdom, including petroleum, copper, coal, mineral sands,
uranium and diamonds assets.’’

That the remaining non-core assets have yet to go down the same path flags that they are difficult to sell.
Their appeal sitting inside a demerged organisation without the cashflow to meet long-term sustaining
capital requirements is why the demerger option, up until now, has not received much of an airing.
“We believe that a portfolio focused on our major iron ore, copper, coal and petroleum assets would
retain the benefits of diversification, generate stronger growth in free cash flow and a superior return on
investment,” BHP said.

“By increasing our focus on these four pillars, with potash as a potential fifth, we will be able to more
quickly improve the productivity and performance of our largest businesses,” BHP said.

It said it would actively study the next phase of simplification, including structural options, but would only
pursue options that maximised value for BHP shareholders.

“Any course of action remains subject to detailed review and an assessment of alternatives,” BHP said.
The alternative is trade sale of individual assets.
The common feature of the key assets up for sale is that, with the exception of manganese in Australia
and South Africa, they all are struggling to turn a dollar because of weak prices, most notably aluminium
and nickel.

Those struggling industries are also the most structurally changed in that the rise in aluminium smelting
and nickel processing in China has changed the global industry’s cost curve.

In essence, a demerger to shareholders — they could presumably opt out in the process — would be
offering shareholders the worst of the BHP businesses, shored up here and there by a profitable
manganese business and a thermal coal business that could have better days with more cost-cutting.

Page4of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CO bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC
IN
NS

i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
cspin : Spin-offs | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
| ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB News Ltd.
AN

Document NLAUSW0020140401ea410005s

Page5of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.