Origin's King bets on Browse growth

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Origin's King bets on Browse growth

Angela Macdonald-Smith
768 words
3 June 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
15
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Origin Energy has shrugged off market worries about the waning competitiveness of Australian
LNG, agreeing to invest up to $US800 million ($859 million) to buy into the Poseidon gas venture
off the north-west coast which is expected to cost more than $US12 billion to develop.
The surprise investment, to be funded by a $1 billion equity raising later this year, means
managing director Grant King has acted early to try to lock in the next phase of growth for Origin
after its $24.7 billionAustralia Pacific LNG project starts up next year.

The deal represents a major success for cash-strapped oil and gas junior Karoon Gas Australia,
which will sell its 40 per cent stake in Poseidon, operated by ConocoPhillips, to Origin for a price
higher than its market value last Friday.

Mr King acknowledged the timing of the deal was sooner than he'd have liked, given the work Origin
has on its plate to bring APLNG into production and weather the competitive pressures in the core
energy markets business.

"There are risks in action and risks in inaction and at the end of the day the timing of this opportunity
was not of our choosing," Mr King said.

"But there's no guarantee that opportunities will arise at a later point in time and almost invariably
when they do they're a lot more expensive."

The deal, if completed, would bring Origin into the Poseidon venture in the Browse Basin alongside
Conoco, Origin's partner in APLNG, and Chinese oil giant PetroChina.

Conoco is aiming to pipe gas from Poseidon to its producing LNG plant in Darwin if the field is big
enough.

Gas from Poseidon would extend the life of the existing LNG plant at Darwin, and also underpin an
expansion, particularly if combined with gas from other undeveloped fields in the remote area.

Mr King said a final investment decision to develop Poseidon could come in 2017, with production
by 2020.
Karoon shares, which had been halted from trading for a month as the company sought to resolve
funding difficulties, surged 43 per cent to $3.51.

Origin sank 3.6 per cent to a six-week low of $14.55, signalling some investors have reservations
about the deal.

However Suhas Nayak at investor Allan Gray gave the move guarded support. "This is in the middle
of a couple of big developments, like APLNG, and also some challenges in their existing business,"
Mr Nayak said.

Page76of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."But I can see a plausible reason to look at this asset given the challenges that Karoon has had with
it in terms of financing. There are reasons to believe it could be good."
Mr King pointed to the escalating cost of discovering oil and gas resources in Australia, and the time
involved, which meant it was better for Origin to buy into existing finds.

"Exploring your way to success is a long and risky journey," he said. "Relative to Origin's size this
opportunity is not that expensive, frankly."

The transaction, which is still subject to pre-emptive rights held by Conoco and PetroChina, would
deal Origin into another of Australia's LNG export hubs in Darwin, in addition to Gladstone, where
APLNG is based.
Under the terms of the deal, first reported in Street Talk, Origin will pay $US600 million up-front,
plus further payments of up to $US200 million as progress is made toward production.'Strong' price

Macquarie Equities described the price as "strong", while UBS said the deal was priced more than a
third higher than its carrying value for Karoon of $481 million.

However, assessing the price depends on how much gas is held in Poseidon. Origin referred to an
estimate of 3.25 trillion cubic feet, while Karoon has a "high estimate" more than double that, of 7.6
tcf.
Origin would initially fund the acquisition from its $5.6 billion of undrawn debt, to be later
refinanced through the share sale, which would also fund other growth projects such as the Ironbark
coal seam gas venture in Queensland. The raising will take place after Origin's full-year results on
August 21.

Karoon chief operating officer Edward Munks described the deal as "a good outcome for both
companies".

"They are big assets and big cheques need to be funded, and it depends on does it fit people's
strategy at this time - obviously it fits with Origin's," he said.

Mr Munks said proceeds from the deal would help fund drilling in Karoon's Brazilian acreage.

aulngj : Australia Pacific LNG Pty. Ltd. | boral : Origin Energy Ltd | karoon : Karoon Gas Australia
Ltd | philp : ConocoPhillips
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300004 : Liquefied/Compressed Gas | i16 :
Electricity/Gas Utilities | i162 : Gas Utilities | iexplo : Natural Gas/Oil Exploration | iutil : Utilities
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140602ea630000v

CO

IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

Page77of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.