New Proposals on Media Ownership May Constrain Investments -KPMG -- Market Talk

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

New Proposals on Media Ownership May Constrain Investments -KPMG -- Market Talk

1,533 words
13 August 2014
14:50
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

Contact us in Singapore. 65 64154 140; MarketTalk@dowjones.com

0450 GMT [Dow Jones ] New proposals by an Indian regulator on restricting media company ownership
could potentially constrain investments, says consulting firmKPMG. The Telecom Regulatory Authority of
India late Tuesday proposed rules on cross-media ownership between print and television media
companies. If the government accepts these suggestions, it will become a policy. "Cross media
integration provides media owners with opportunities to leverage content, advertiser relationships, build
economies of scale and to enhance viability," says Jehil Thakkar, head of media and entertainment at
KPMG in India. He adds that India must be careful to frame its regulation in a way that encourages
growth rather than restrict scale. (krishna.jai@wsj.com; Twitter : @jaikrishna)

0449 GMT [Dow Jones ] China's "phenomenal" residential property investment in Australia will
continue for at least three more years, according to a 75 page report from CLSA. It says China is now
the No. 1 source of foreign-capital investment in Australian real estate and is likely to remain so, with
around 10 million top income Chinese families interested in migrating to Australia. "Education and clean
environment are key reasons for emigration," CLSA Senior Investment Analyst Andrew Johnston says.
"Australian apartment developers are likely to benefit, especially those with well-positioned locations in
suburbs that are attractive to Chinese investors with NSW and Victoria being the overwhelming
destinations of choice." (david.rogers@wsj.com; Twitter : @DavidRogersWSJ)

0443 GMT [Dow Jones ] If Japan's ugly gross domestic product data were "within expectations" of the
government, the Bank of Japan and some private economists, that's partly because they had all trimmed
their forecast beforehand, looking at gloomy monthly data. "A little while ago, this was 'beyond
expectations' of everyone," tweeted Yoichi Takahashi, a university professor seen as an economic
adviser to Prime Minister Shinzo Abe. Indeed, some BOJ officials forecast earlier this year that GDP
would likely shrink 4% in the second quarter, according to people familiar with the bank's thinking. That
was less striking than the just announced 6.8% drop. All this means that even though the GDP figure fell
within officials' latest forecast range, this doesn't necessarily mean things aren't so bad.
(takashi.nakamichi@wsj.com)

0440 GMT [Dow Jones ] USD/INR resumes its upward trajectory--implying a weaker rupee versus the
U.S. dollar ahead--rising to 61.24 after the pullback seen earlier this week. The immediate target for
USD/INR is the 61.61 top of the Bollinger uptrend channel. The base of the uptrend channel at 61.12 is a
key technical support that if breached at the end of the day could signal a deeper pullback to come. The
rupee has backtracked significantly, falling 4.9% against the U.S. dollar since its post-election peak of
58.25, after prime minister Modi took power. There has been disappointment at the lack of cooperation
with the World Trade Organisation in implementing trade agreements--a sign that the new administration
will be as resistant to reforms and economic restructuring as the one it replaced. USD/INR is now 61.24
from its Tuesday close of 61.08. (ewen.chew@wsj.com)

0435 GMT [Dow Jones ] The continued recovery in Australian consumer confidence adds to other
indicators in suggesting that a fall in real retail sales in the second quarter is likely to be temporary, says
Shane Oliver, chief economist at AMP Capital. However, with confidence still low and wage growth

Page309of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.staying very weak there is absolutely no pressure from these numbers for the RBA to raise interest rates,
he adds. (james.glynn@wsj.com; Twitter @JamesGlynnWSJ)
0432 GMT [Dow Jones ] The exceptionally slow pace of China's credit growth in July is not a good sign
for the financial system, says ANZ Bank economist Li-Gang Liu. The last time lending slowed so
suddenly was during the Lehman crisis. "It's possible there's some unreported stress that has sharply
increased risk averseness among commercial banks," says Mr. Liu. "It could be that there are
undisclosed shadow banking defaults driving this." The central bank puts the reversal down to normal
seasonal fluctuations, but Mr. Liu is skeptical. "It's difficult to buy that explanation," he says.

(richard.silk@dowjones.com)

0429 GMT [Dow Jones ] Cement demand in Indonesia is poised for a recovery after a tough month,
CIMB says. The bank says July's unusually weak figures were due to a combination of the presidential
election and Eid celebrations, which led to three weeks of slower construction activity. Despite the weak
figures, CIMB says July 2014 demand was actually higher than August 2013, the time of Eid last year,
suggesting that the sector is stronger than originally thought. CIMB favors PT Indocement Tunggal
Prakarsa (INTP.JK), citing its higher capacity growth and better pricing power than its competitors.
Indocement trades 1.4% lower month-to-date but is up 23% so far this year at 24575 rupiah (US$2.1) a
share. (jake.watts@wsj.com; @jmwatts_)
0427 GMT [Dow Jones ] The surprise drop in lending this July shows that China's regulators are finally
getting serious about cracking down on the murky "shadow banking" system, says CIMB economist Fan
Zhang. The increase of trust loans, banker's acceptances and foreign currency lending were all negative
in July, indicating net repayment of these instruments. Zhang sees the influence of the central bank and
China Banking Regulatory Commission at work. "Banks might want to get off-balance sheet lending back
on their balance sheet," he says. "This shows the regulators are doing something to get shadow banking
under control." (richard.silk@dowjones.com)

0418 GMT [Dow Jones ] South Korea's planned changes to taxes to encourage companies to pay higher
dividends may be a big leap for more than quarter of KOSPI 200 component stocks, which do not pay
out enough to shareholders to qualify, says Goldman Sachs . The income tax cut on dividends, part of a
package of measures to spur investment and give the Korean economy a jolt, could boost payouts by
companies in the KOSPI 200, which has the lowest dividend yield in Asia at just 1.32%. "Our analysis
suggests that 57 listed companies in KOSPI200, of which SK Hynix (000660.SE), NAVER Corp
(035420.SE) and Lotte Shopping (023530.SE) are the largest based on market capitalization, may need
to raise dividends significantly for 2014 in order to be eligible for the dividend tax cuts," the bank says.
Korea's parliament votes on the policy in the fall. (gregor.hunter@wsj.com; Twitter : @gregorhunter)

0405 GMT [Dow Jones ] The BOJ will have to ease in October or November, given the sharp contraction
in GDP in the second quarter, says Robert Feldman, chief economist at Morgan Stanley MUFG
Securities Co. in Tokyo. "The BOJ is surrounded on three sides. The data are bad, there's going to be
political pressure for them to do something after a number like this and then the consumption tax debate
still has to be decided by [Prime Minster Shinzo] Abe in December," he says. BOJ will likely cut its
unrealistically optimistic 1.1% growth forecast, he says, and possibly its price forecast for the current
fiscal year and will be forced to expand easing measures. These could include increasing JGB
purchases and clarifying their monetary base target. The bank could also create a link between BOJ
policy and government efforts to boost growth, for example by investing in the energy sector, he says.
(eleanor.warnock@wsj.com)

0401 GMT [Dow Jones ] Australia's wage cost index printed slightly below expectations in the second
quarter at +0.6% quarter on quarter, while annual wage growth continues to slide, now running at the
weakest pace since the government data series began in 1997, says Tom Kennedy, economist at
JPMorgan . He adds that a lack of wage pressures remains consistent with the idea that slack in the
Australian job market is "significant." He adds: "The persistent weakness in wage growth confirms our
sense that slack is accumulating in the labor market, and will continue to do so while real GDP growth
remains below potential." (james.glynn@wsj.com; Twitter @JamesGlynnWSJ)

0401 GMT [Dow Jones ] In a rare statement accompanying its releases of credit data, the People's Bank
of China says that July's weak credit growth doesn't mean a shift of its monetary policy stance. The
PBOC attributes July's slower credit increase to companies' softer demand for bank lending, notable
drop in deposits and banks' rising awareness of the financial risks in trust and other sectors. Stock
markets in China and Hong Kong fell on the surprisingly weak data. China will release economic growth
figures, including industrial output and investment, later Wednesday, and the slower credit growth could
mean that July's economic growth could be less stellar than some had expected. (liyan.qi@wsj.com)

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

Page310of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.August 13, 2014 00:50 ET (04:50 GMT)

CO
IN

NS

RE

trauth : Telecom Regulatory Authority of India
i81402 : Commercial Banking | imed : Media/Entertainment | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal
: Financial Services
c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | namt : All Market Talk |
ndjmt : Dow Jones Market Talk | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class
News | nfxacb : Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class Premium News | nfxmt :
Foreign Exchange Market Talk | nrmf : Routine Market/Financial News | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
| ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News
Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
austr : Australia | india : India | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | indsubz :
Indian Subcontinent | sasiaz : Southern Asia

PUB Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
AN

Document DJDN000020140813ea8d000h3

Page311of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.