Hazelwood Resources Ltd. - Pre-Feasibility Completed for Mt Mulgine Tungsten Concentrator

HD
WC 771 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

Hazelwood Resources Ltd. - Pre-Feasibility Completed for Mt Mulgine Tungsten Concentrator

30 January 2014
ENP Newswire
ENPNEW
English
(c) 2014, Electronic News Publishing. All Rights Reserved.

Release date - 29012014

Hazelwood Resources Ltd (ASX: HAZ) is pleased to announce the completion of an Engineering
Pre-Feasibility Study for the establishment of a concentrator at the Mt Mulgine Tungsten Project located in
the mid-west region of Australia.

TD

Mt Mulgine as a source of feedstock for ferrotungsten production

The engineering pre-feasibility estimate is part of the evaluation of the development options for the Mt
Mulgine Tungsten Project which could form an important part of the supply chain for the established
downstream ATC Ferrotungsten Project in Vietnam. ATC sells ferrotungsten to steelmakers and foundries
globally, having entered production during April 2013.

Tungsten feedstock for Hazelwood’s downstream tungsten processing business is presently sourced from
a range of third party sources. The concentrator for Mt Mulgine as proposed in the pre-feasibility
engineering study would, conceptually, provide around a third of the required annual feedstock based on
CY2015 ferrotungsten production projections.

Modest capital expenditure path to vertical integration

Hazelwood engaged Como Engineers Pty Ltd to conduct a Pre-Feasibility estimate for the establishment
of a 330,000 tonnes per annum concentrator at the Mt Mulgine Tungsten Project. The project hosts a
relatively high grade tungsten Mineral Resource at the Mulgine Hill Deposit and has been subject to
significant historical evaluation work, including a similar-sized plant design by Fluor during the 1970s.

The battery limits for the engineering pre-feasibility estimate are from ROM pad grizzly to the tailings dam
discharge point. The tailings dam, bore fields and infrastructure will be considered as part of a full
evaluation study, taking into account infrastructure that is already established in the region. The estimated
capital required for the concentrator is $AUD 31.5 million, estimated to a +/-25% level of accuracy and
includes a contingency of 20% of cost.

Concentrator design criteria

The concentrator consists of a crushing and milling circuit, tungsten gravity separation and sulphide
flotation. The design throughput of 330,000 tonnes per annum has resulted in a modest sized plant that
would exploit higher grade parts of Mt Mulgine (greater than 0.2% WO3). Projected output would be
approximately 90,000 metric tonne units+ of tungsten concentrate at the assumed mill feed grade
(approximately 700 tonnes per annum of contained tungsten).

Tungsten Mineral Resource Mulgine Hill

The Mulgine Hill deposit contains a significant JORC Mineral Resource which contains a higher grade
portion that may be amenable to small-scale underground mining. Previous studies examined both
open-pit and underground mining options for the Mulgine Hill Deposit. The mine design and ore reserve
will be defined during a full-feasibility study.

Commenting on the completion of the Engineering PFS, Managing Director Terry Butler-Blaxell stated;
‘Tungsten concentrate represents 90% of the operating cost of the ATC Ferrotungsten Project. We are
looking at Mt Mulgine as an opportunity to vertically integrate and reduce our overall feedstock costs,

Page283of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.improving the refining margins for the business. The challenge is to develop a low lead time mining
project at the right scale that can readily recover the capital. These results move Hazelwood closer to the
potential to provide a strategic internal source of tungsten feedstock to our very successful ferrotungsten
processing business in Vietnam’.

Contact:

Terry Butler-Blaxell Managing Director Hazelwood Resources Ltd Tel: +61 89320 5220 Email:
info@hazelwood.com.au

ABOUT HAZELWOOD
Hazelwood Resources Ltd is a new specialty metals producer with a majority stake in the ATC
Ferrotungsten Project in Vietnam. Ferrotungsten is used in the production of high speed steels, tool steel
and temperature resistant alloys. The ATC Ferrotungsten plant is the largest capacity facility of its type
outside of China and its design is believed to be the most advanced in the world. High quality product
from ATC meets

the specifications of the Japanese and European markets and can be produced from a range of different
feedstock sources.

With an established specialty metals production base, Hazelwood has the ability to expand into other
capital-efficient opportunities in downstream processing. There is potential for future vertical integration
with Hazelwood’s 100% owned primary tungsten projects in Western Australia. The Big Hill Tungsten
Deposit and Mt Mulgine Tungsten Project host near surface resources and are being evaluated as
potential future sources of feedstock for Hazelwood’s downstream refining business.

Hazelwood has significant exposure to nickel sulphides and base metals exploration through its 100%
owned Cookes Creek and Copper Gorge (HAZ 70% Atlas Iron 30%) areas in the East Pilbara of Western
Australia.

[Editorial queries for this story should be sent to newswire@enpublishing.co.uk]

hwrsau : Hazelwood Resources Limited
ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
npress : Press Releases | ncat : Content Types
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

CO
IN
NS
RE
PUB Electronic News Publishing Ltd.
AN

Document ENPNEW0020140130ea1u000ey

Page284of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.