Karoon Seeks Bounce in Brazil -- Market Talk

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Karoon Seeks Bounce in Brazil -- Market Talk

1,469 words
16 September 2014
09:02
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

2302 GMT [Dow Jones] Now that it has sold its main Australian assets, the focus for Karoon Gas
(KAR.AU) turns to Brazil, where UBS hopes the coming Kangaroo-2 well will provide a "share price
bounce" when it's drilled between September and December. Karoon and joint venture partner Pacific
Rubiales (PRE.T) have already had some success with the Kangaroo-1 and Kangaroo West wells and a
further oil discovery would help prove up the quality of the resource. Although the drilling program is
risky, UBS notes Karoon's US$600 million sale of Australian assets to Origin (ORG.AU) provides
A$2.44/share of cash backing, offering considerable protection if well results disappoint. The shares
could also benefit from a further sell-down of Karoon's stake in the promising Brazilian assets, UBS
says, applying a buy recommendation and A$5.50 price target vs. Karoon's last trade of A$3.74.
(Ross.Kelly@wsj.com)

2255 GMT [Dow Jones] The realignment of Johnson Controls' building efficiency business unit includes a
management shakeup as part of separating the unit's service and HVAC products businesses. Dave
Myers, president of the building unit, resigned after 20 years with JCI. He has been replaced by Bill
Jackson, who worked in JCI's automotive business after joining the company in 2011. Trent Nevill will
continue as vice president and general manager in charge of building efficiency's service business,
which accounted for 45% of building efficiency's $3.9 billion of revenue in 2013. Building efficiency has
become a more important business to JCI as the company scales back its automotive business in
search of better margins and a higher stock price. JCI ended down 1.2% at $46.02.
(robert.tita@wsj.com)

2252 GMT [Dow Jones] Johnson Controls JCI is splitting the service and products businesses of its
building-efficiency unit, a move that JCI hopes will give the businesses more room to expand and focus
on customers. "I think it's going to make us a better company," says CEO Alex Molinaroli in an interview.
"Both of these businesses are very important to our future," he says. The service business has 120
branches that install, repair and maintain heating and air conditioning systems in commercial buildings.
The products side of the buildings business builds York-brand HVAC equipment and recently entered
into a joint venture with Hitachi for variable refrigerant technology. JCI ended down 1.2% at $46.02.
(robert.tita@wsj.com)

2252 GMT [Dow Jones] Australia's central bank will publish minutes of its September policy meeting at
0130 GMT. ANZ says in a research note it expects a more optimistic message on the domestic economy
to be conveyed, but is also looking to see if the level of concern among policy makers about China's
property market is on the rise. The Australian dollar has had its biggest fall against the U.S. dollar in
more than a year in the last week in part due to uncertainty about China. (james.glynn@wsj.com; Twitter
@JamesGlynnWSJ)

18:07 EDT - Shares of Brazilian steelmaker Companhia Siderurgica Nacional (CSNA3.BR) surge on
news that a steel plant the company had reportedly hoped to buy in Kentucky will be sold to US
steelmaker Nucor (NUE) for $770M. CSN has been in the market to buy US steel assets for more than a
year but has repeatedly come up short. In July the company lost a bid for the US operations of Russian
steelmaker Severstal, while earlier this year Germany's ThyssenKrupp agreed to sell an Alabama mill to
ArcelorMittal and Nippon Steel. CSN shares gain 2.9% today to close at BRL9.67.
(paul.kiernan@wsj.com)

Page73of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.17:59 EDT - Central-bank autonomy is a subject that shows up in Brazil's political debate every now and
then, but a tight presidential campaign has given the subject a higher profile. As opposition candidate
Marina Silva shot up on the polls to challenge incumbent Dilma Rousseff, a proposal for central-bank
autonomy buried on Silva's government program was picked up by Rousseff's camp, who says the move
was tantamount to empowering bankers and taking food out of the working family's table. Former
central-bank President Gustavo Franco wrote in an op-ed piece for O Globo newspaper Sunday, about
the debate: "In two weeks, the evolution of Brazil's monetary institutions regressed a decade or more."
(paulo.trevisani@wsj.com; @ptrevisani)
17:56 EDT - Nucor's (NUE) purchase of Ghent, Kentucky-based Gallatin Steel from Gerdau (GGB) and
ArcelorMittal (MT) for $770M will add around 20c per share on a cash basis to NUE's 2015 earnings,
KeyBanc says. "We see operating income of $95 million," excluding purchase price accounting
adjustments, the firm writes. Before the announcement, Gallatin was generating roughly $140M-$150M
annually in Ebitda, before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, Keybanc estimates.
(john.miller@wsj.com)

17:49 EDT - Brazil's crude steel production fell to 2.9M metric tons in August, down 1.4% from a year
earlier, the Brazilian Steel Institute said today. Exports rose slightly, but domestic consumption tumbled
17% year-on-year to 2M tons. Brazil's steel sector is stuck between a rock and a hard place, with a
recession hurting the domestic market and huge oversupply in the international market keeping a lid on
exports. (paul.kiernan@wsj.com)

17:40 EDT - It might soon be illegal for businesses to keep pay under wraps. The US Department of
Labor announces a proposed rule that would ban federal contractors from having pay-secrecy policies.
Under the proposal, federal contractors and subcontractors wouldn't be able to fire or discriminate
against employees or applicants for discussing, disclosing or inquiring about their pay or that of other
workers. Rules for federal contractors often influence policy for other employers because federal
contractors comprise such a large number. The rule, published in the September 17 Federal Register, is
open for public comment for 90 days. (rachel.silverman@wsj.com)

17:37 EDT - President Kirchner's 2015 budget suggest Argentines are in for a dose of fiscal austerity,
with the projected 13.2% rise in spending below the government's 14.5% inflation forecast. That inflation
number looks farfetched compared to the 40% estimates annual inflation today, and the idea that
government spending would actually contract in real terms during an election year borders on the
fantastical. Argentina watchers know that Kirchner budgets grossly underestimate tax revenue and
spending so the president can spend the resulting budget-busting windfall as she sees fit thanks to
emergency powers granted by Congress. Spending financed by money printing has been a major
contributor to inflation the last five years in the absence of other financing sources. Without foreign
borrowings in 2015, the central bank's printing press will likely be in high demand. (ken.parks@wsj.com)

17:37 EDT - At the end of the month, insurance companies will have to begin dumping 115,000 people
who signed up for health plans through the troubled HealthCare.gov site, the Obama administration said
today, because those people missed a deadline to confirm they are legally residing in the US. It's likely to
be unwelcome additional work for insurers as they ready for the next sign-up period starting this
November. The administration also said it would move to cut off tax credits that offset the cost of
premiums for around 279,000 people whose income the government can't verify if those people don't
respond to a Sept. 30 deadline to send in more information. (louise.radnofsky@wsj.com;
@louiseradnofsky)

17:32 EDT - The Labor Department today awarded $10M in grants to 19 states for creating or improving
programs to detect misclassified workers, an action that could prove costly for small firms operating on
tight margins. "States will have more funding to conduct audits, and even if you've properly classified all
of your workers, you will still be put through the cost of defending yourself in the form of professional fees
and business interruption," says New York attorney David Lagasse. Converting contractors into staffers
to avoid possible penalties can also raises expenses, he adds, due to taxes, social security and other
hiring-related costs. (sarah.needleman@wsj.com; @saraheneedleman)

To contact the Market Talk Editors,
Kevin Kingsbury, 212 416-2354, kevin.kingsbury@wsj.com
Cynthia Lin, 212 416-4403, Cynthia.lin@wsj.com
John Shipman, 212 416-2181, john.shipman@wsj.com
Patrick Sullivan, 212 416-2326, Patrick.sullivan@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

Page74of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.September 15, 2014 19:02 ET (23:02 GMT)

CO
IN

NS

RE

aginc : Pacific Rubiales Energy Corp. | karoon : Karoon Gas Australia Ltd
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | imulti : Multiutilities | iutil : Utilities
| i162 : Gas Utilities | iexplo : Natural Gas/Oil Exploration
c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | namt : All Market Talk | ndjmt : Dow
Jones Market Talk | nenac : Energy Asset Class News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | c184 : Joint
Ventures | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
braz : Brazil | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries |
devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | lamz : Latin America | samz :
South America

PUB Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
AN

Document DJDN000020140915ea9f003uu

Page75of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.