Perich empire to pour in $100m

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Perich empire to pour in $100m

Damon Kitney, Dairy
882 words
27 October 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
17
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

EXCLUSIVE THE billionaire Perich family is working on ploughing as much as $100 million into its
dairy empire in a bid to capitalise on soaring demand for milk products in Asia and to encourage
more farmers to return to the industry.
Family patriarch Tony Perich, who is managing director of the Perich Group, said the spending would
be across its suite of companies, including new milk manufacturing plants, new products and buying
up farms.

The Perich family’s Leppington Pastoral Company milks more than 2000 cows at its state-of-the-art
dairy near Bringelly in western Sydney.
It also has a 60 per cent stake in listed food companyFreedom Foods, which makes allergen-free
breakfast cereals, as well as fresh and long-life milk beverages and seafood.
Freedom in turn owns a stake in the New Zealand-listed A2 Milk Corporation, which makes high
protein milk that is easier to digest.
The family’s wealth in this year’s BRW Rich List topped $1 billion for the first time, putting it among
the 40 billionaires in the nation.
“I can tell you we are looking to go bigger into dairy ... I believe in the industry,’’ Mr Perich told The
Australian.
“We will probably put about $100m into it. That depends if we can get enough milk. But if we have to,
we will.’’ In April, Freedom’s Pactum Dairy Group announced an agreement to supply premium
long-life milk to Bright Dairy, one of China’s largest dairy companies.
It also supplies to A2 Corporation, New Hope Dairy in Chengdu, Shenzhen JLL in Guangzhou and is
in advanced negotiations to sell fresh Australian milk on the booming Alibaba online retail platform in
China.
Earlier this year, A2 struck a deal to supply fresh milk direct to homes in Beijing, Shanghai and
Guangzhou through Chinese online retailer Jingdong.

Pactum is now expanding its Sydney operations at a new site in Ingleburn that will open next year, as
well as growing capacity at its Shepparton plant in Victoria. In August it bought a $4m neighbouring
property to its Shepparton plant to more than double its land size.

Morgans analyst Belinda Moore said last month that it expected to see “a large step change in
Pactum’s margins in FY17’’ from the Ingleburn investment.

“Now we are encouraging farmers to come back into the industry by exporting overseas. We do
believe there is a big market for UHT and long-life milk. If you have a modern factory and keep your

Page229of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.costs down, I believe you can certainly compete in the market overseas,’’ Mr Perich said, adding that
he was passionate about the future of the dairy industry.

“We have the best farmers in the world, but they don’t get treated like that. There is too many people
going bankrupt, committing suicide in the farming industry because they are not getting a fair return
on their product. And that is not right,” he said.
Freedom Foods is on the lookout for further Chinese partners for its dairy business and Mr Perich
said he and his brother Ron as well as chief executive Rory Macleod had visited China to meet the
company’s current and potential new partners.
“Why did my brother and myself go over to China? Because they want to meet the owners. After
talking with them, they were very happy with us. They saw we were genuine farmers. You have to go
over and see these people,’’ he said.
“If you can be honest with the Chinese and not try to put one over them, they will be very loyal to you.
I think we trust them more than they trust us. That is a problem.’’ Freedom’s share price has risen
from about 75c in April last year to as high as $3.25 at the start of last month. The shares closed on
Friday at $2.87.

Mr Perich said the family would never sell below the 50 per cent level. “Our management knows that
if we drop below 50 per cent, we are out of this company. Unless we can keep controlling the
direction where we think it should go, we would not be involved,’’ he said.
But he added that it was important the company had an independent board. “We have an
independent chairman and we like to have some independence — that is important.’’ Malcolm Riley,
head of nutritional research at CSIRO’s Animal, Food and Health Sciences division in Adelaide,
claimed in April that some claims made about the health benefits of A2 milk were “staggering”.
A2 contains a different type of protein from regular milk: beta-casein A2. Asked about the comments,
Mr Perich replied: “All milk is good, but A2 milk is better for some people and you can feel the
difference. Try it,” he said.

“We know there are benefits in it, but to get that proven, that takes years. “What I am saying is, you
don’t have to believe it. But once you go on to A2 milk and you have drunk it for a month, you will feel
different. A2 milk will never rubbish ordinary milk. All milk is good. It’s just A2 is
better.’’PRIMESPACE P21

i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i010010502 : Dairy Cattle Farming | i413 : Dairy Products | i0 :
Agriculture | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i01001 : Farming | i0100105 : Cattle Farming | icnp :
Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products | ilsfarm : Livestock Farming
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | reqrfb : Suggested Reading Food/Beverages/Tobacco | redit :
Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
china : China | austr : Australia | victor : Victoria (Australia) | guang : Guangdong | apacz : Asia Pacific
| asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141026eaar0000t

IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page230of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.