Economists Disputes Thai Minister's 'Overblown' Stagflation Comment -- Market Talk

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

Economists Disputes Thai Minister's 'Overblown' Stagflation Comment -- Market Talk

1,489 words
21 October 2014
15:56
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

0456 GMT [Dow Jones] Thai Finance Minister Sommai Phasee's remark that Thailand's economy is
experiencing "stagflation" because of low domestic spending due to waning confidence is disputed by
economists. Stagflation describes a prolonged period of sluggish growth accompanied with high
unemployment. "However, Thailand had been facing gross domestic product growth of less than 1% in
the last three quarters (since the third quarter of 2013) with the current low unemployment rate of 0.7%
(as of August 2014)," Bangkok-based Tisco Economic Strategic Unit in research note, adding: "Thus, the
remark by the finance minister is overblown." (nopparat.chaichalearmmongkol@dowjones.com)

Editor JSM

TD

0442 GMT [Dow Jones] The Australian dollar was one of the biggest beneficiaries of the Chinese gross
domestic product data, rallying back above the US$0.8800 handle, says RBC Capital in a strategy note.
Meanwhile, the policy meeting minutes from the Reserve Bank of Australia's October board meeting
earlier contained little new news, with a steady-as-she-goes message permeating throughout, it says.
The cash rate looks set to stay at an historical low for an extended period, RBC says.
(james.glynn@wsj.com; Twitter: @JamesGlynnWSJ)

Editor JSM

0435 GMT [Dow Jones] The ongoing plenum of the Chinese Communist Party could signal the next
phase of the anti-graft effort, says Capital Economics. "It is tempting to dismiss the Communist Party's
talk of boosting the rule of law in China as simply hot air," it says. It says the campaign should ultimately
have a positive economic impact, but in the short-run, the economy may be hurt by weaker demand for
"luxury goods, banquets and ill-gotten property". "Although some will undoubtedly question the motives of
the central leadership in consolidating power via its anti-graft campaign, such an approach may be
necessary to push through difficult reforms in the face of vested interests," says Capital Economics.
(jacky.wong@wsj.com; Twitter: @jackycwong)

Editor JSM

0430 GMT [Dow Jones] An uptick in China's economic growth and industrial production numbers is
providing some support for crude-oil prices. Chinese economic data came in slightly better than
estimated, and oil demand will likely rise for the world's No. 2 economy. "This likely gives some upward
push to crude prices, but global crude demand should still remain weak and is likely to persist in the
coming quarter," Phillip Futures analyst Daniel Ang says. Nymex crude had strong resistance at
$82.58/bbl, which has been breached; the next level is $84.73 . Brent crude is still testing the first
resistance level of $85.97/bbl. Nymex crude is up 29 cents at $83.00/bbl, while Brent is up 11 cents at
$85.51/bbl. (eric.yep@wsj.com)

Page31of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Editor: JVW

0423 GMT [Dow Jones] Australia's central bank clearly feels the Australian dollar needs to fall further to
support the economy in the face of commodity price declines this year. But Michael Workman, senior
economist at the Commonwealth Bank of Australia, says there are good reasons to think the currency will
remain strong. The yields on Australian interest-bearing securities--high by international standards--is still
generating considerable offshore investor interest, despite the prospect of higher U.S. and UK interest
rates through 2015 and 2016, Workman says. While China's growth may slow, it will still take most of
Australia's rising volumes of iron ore and coal through the next few years, he
adds.(james.glynn@wsj.com; Twitter: @JamesGlynnWSJ)

Editor JSM

0423 GMT [Dow Jones] Japan's government is likely to go ahead with a sales tax hike planned for
October, 2015, says Iwao Matsumoto, general manager in the investment planning department of
Sumitomo Life Insurance Co. "The government has a goal of budget surplus in fiscal 2020, so it will raise
the sales tax" while using economic stimulus to support growth, he says. Some lawmakers and
economists have said the government should postpone the tax after an increase in the tax in this April
chilled economic activity. Matsumoto says though April's sales tax increase has damped growth as
households cut back on spending, a firm jobs market and rising wages should help sustain a recovery in
consumer spending and growth overall ahead. Sumitomo is Japan's fourth-largest life insurer by
assets.(eleanor.warnock@wsj.com)

Editor: KLH

0418 GMT [Dow Jones] Hong Kong equities retreat as China's GDP for the third quarter beats
estimates, contrary to what previously released data had suggested, and investors withdraw stimulus
bets. Asia's largest economy grew at 7.3% in Q3, decelerating from 7.5% in Q2, while housing data
shows sales falling 10.8% during the first nine months of the year compared with a year earlier. "An
expansion of the trade surplus and infrastructure investment are compensating for the housing market's
correction and keeping real GDP growth above seven percent," says PNC Financial Services Group. The
data reflect "slowdown, but not collapse, leaving questions about balance sheet weaknesses lingering but
unlikely to be answered in 2014," PNC adds. The Hang Seng Index falls 0.3% to 23,012.31, while
H-shares fall in step; the Hang SengChina Enterprises Index is down 0.3% to 10,265.80.
(gregor.hunter@wsj.com; Twitter: @gregorhunter)

Editor: KLH

0416 GMT [Dow Jones] China's GDP growth slowed to the lowest quarterly print since the first quarter of
2009, but the pick-up in industrial production is encouraging, say Nomura analysts. Industrial production
growth picked up to 8.0% year over year after a very sharp slowdown to 6.9% in August. "This is
encouraging, as of all the monthly data, industrial production has the strongest correlation with GDP
growth, so this bodes well for an economic recovery this year," they say. Beijing has stepped up its policy
easing after weak August data and these efforts have helped stabilize growth, the analysts say. "More
policy stimulus is needed to lift GDP growth in the fourth quarter," they add. (grace.zhu@wsj.com)

Editor: KLH

0409 GMT [Dow Jones] MOF sells Y1.2 trillion of 1.4% coupon 20-year bonds with a lowest price of
101.20, yielding 1.323% and matching market expectations. The bid-to-cover ratio deteriorates to 3.59
from 3.89 at the previous auction. The tail, another gauge of demand, was at 0.08 vs 0.05 at the last
tender. The wider tail, the difference between the average and the lowest price, suggests slightly weaker
demand for the issue than last time. Lead December JGB futures shed some of their gains after the
auction. They were up 0.06 points at 146.31. (tatsuo.ito@wsj.com)

Editor: PJK

Page32of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.0407 GMT [Dow Jones] Australia's central bank Tuesday acknowledged the recent slowdown in China's
economy, but remains reassured China's authorities have the firepower to support growth if needed. In
the minutes of its last policy meeting, the RBA said that there was scope to ease policy if required in
China. Paul Brennan, chief economist at Citi says the RBA also notes that China's target for employment
growth in 2014 was close to being achieved, a positive sign that things generally remain on target.
(james.glynn@wsj.com; Twitter @JamesGlynnWSJ)

Editor: KLH

0402 GMT [Dow Jones] Chinese refineries processed a record volume of crude oil processing in
September, but analysts say this doesn't reflect a consumption bump. "If crude runs are high, that's
because import prices of oil are very low and companies are replenishing their inventories," says Miao
Tian, an analyst at investment bank North Square Blue Oak. A flood of new crude on global markets and
weak global demand have taken the price of crude to levels not seen since 2010, with full-year
oil-demand growth forecast to slip further for the remainder of the year. China's crude runs last month
reached 10.3 million barrels a day, according to data provided by the National Statistics Bureau.
(chuin-wei.yap@wsj.com; Twitter @YapCW)

Editor: JVW

0351 GMT [Dow Jones] The Reserve Bank of Australia retained its forward guidance of a period of stable
rates in policy meeting minutes earlier today, and remains concerned about rising house prices, says
Kieran Davies, chief economist at Barclays. The board appears to have discussed new regulations on
mortgage lending, but nothing was disclosed. Davies expects regulators to announce a capital charge for
investor home loans. The targeted policy measures in part of the housing market are a clear risk to the
timing of Barclays' forecast that modest rate hikes commence in 1Q next year, he adds.
(james.glynn@wsj.com; Twitter @JamesGlynnWSJ)

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

October 21, 2014 00:56 ET (04:56 GMT)

NS

RE

e211 : Government Taxation/Revenue | ecat : Economic News | gpol : Domestic Politics | mcat :
Commodity/Financial Market News | namt : All Market Talk | ndjmt : Dow Jones Market Talk | nfiac :
Fixed Income Asset Class News | nfxacb : Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class
Premium News | e21 : Government Finance | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International
Relations | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter
austr : Australia | thail : Thailand | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | devgcoz
: Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | seasiaz : Southeast Asia

PUB Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
AN

Document DJDN000020141021eaal0009n

Page33of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.