Menora Foods chews over a possible float

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Menora Foods chews over a possible float

Damon Kitney
573 words
16 July 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
21
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

MARKETS: One of the nation’s biggest privately owned food marketing and distribution businesses,
Menora Foods, could be floated on the sharemarket as one of the options flowing from a strategic
review of the company prompted by offers in recent months from local and international suitors.

Menora chief executive Sam Schachna said yesterday that “all options were on the table” in the
review, which is being conducted by investment banks CIMB and Moelis & Company.

“At this point in time we will review all the options,” Mr Schachna said. “This process is just beginning.
We want this process to identify the best long term outcomes for the business.” The float option could
be bolstered by the recent success of the public offer raising for Tasmanian organic baby foods
producer Bellamy’s Organic, which will list on the ASX later this month after attracting significant
interest from big name investors.
Bellamy’s $100 million float has been backed by the Ashok Jacob-led and James Packer-backed
Ellerston Capital, Paradice Investment Management, Wilson Asset Management, Alex Waislitz’s
Thorney Group, Karara Capital and Schroders.

The ASX-listed Freedom Foods, which is backed by the Perich Family and makes allergen-free
breakfast cereals and bars, has also had a stellar run on the sharemarket.
Multinational food groups such as Bright Foods from China and the Israeli food group Strauss are
also looking to expand in the Australian market.

Filipino food powerhouse Monde Nissin Corporation made its first foray into the Australian food
manufacturing market with the acquisition of dip producer Black Swan last month for a reported
$115m.

Mr Schachna said the Menora board had decided to go public on the strategic review process for the
sake of the company’s 300 employees after receiving the approaches to acquire 100 per cent of the
business.

“From our family's and Menora’s perspective, it is important we are open and transparent with all our
employees,” he said.

Menora markets more than 1500 products and generates 50 per cent of its revenues from supplying
the independent grocery sector, distributing brands such as Peckish rice snacks, Cobram Estate olive
oil, Wattle Valley cheeses and dips, and Maille mustard. It has also moved into chilled meals and the
beverage market through a deal with Saxby’s soft drinks.

It disclosed some of its financials for the first time yesterday, revealing that current year revenue is
forecast to be $170m and EBIT is expected to be about $8m.

Menora was established in Melbourne in 1967 as Menora Gourmet Products and the business was
bought by Mr Schachna’s father, Ely, 10 years later. He retired from the business in 2012, handing

Page236of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.over the reins to his son. One of the founders, Daniel Gluck, remains a 25 per cent shareholder. Mr
Schachna would not rule out the family exiting the business following the review process.

“It is important for the family business to put the business before the family,” he said, but declined to
give further details of the ownership structure. The review is expected to be completed within four to
five months.

He said more international distribution deals were on the horizon on the US and South Africa after
Menora struck a deal with the largest food manufacturer in Britain to distribute one of its leading
brands throughout the country.It already has a strong footprint in New Zealand.

CO
IN
NS
RE
PUB
AN

tapufl : Bellamy s Australia Ltd
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | ibabyf : Baby Food | icnp : Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140715ea7g00089

Page237of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.