Morgan Stanley Balks at Financing Australia Coal Port; India’s Adani Seeks to Expand Project, Which Has Sparked Environmental Concerns

SE
HD

BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
ED
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Morgan Stanley Balks at Financing Australia Coal Port; India’s Adani Seeks to Expand Project,
Which Has Sparked Environmental Concerns
By Rob Taylor
793 words
27 October 2014
21:38
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

CANBERRA, Australia—Adani Enterprises Ltd. has hired Morgan Stanley to sell part of the Indian
conglomerate’s stake in the Abbot Point coal port as part of an expansion plan. Meanwhile, the bank
has expressed concern about the project’s environmental impact.
Adani plans to build a new terminal to handle coal from the company’s proposed Carmichael Coal
project, which could become one of the world’s biggest new coal mines.

An expanded Abbot Point would likely lead to more ships navigating near the Great Barrier Reef,
sparking concerns from the United Nations and environmental groups over the potential impact on the
reef.

Adani disclosed Morgan Stanley’s role after the U.S.-based bank sent a letter to the Rainforest Action
Network, saying the bank would “not lend to or invest in the expansion of Abbot Point.”
Adani said Morgan Stanley is advising on the potential partial sale of the company’s existing terminal.
Any such sale would be used to assist in the port’s expansion, the company said.

Morgan Stanley said the bank is involved only in the existing terminal. “We will not lend to, or invest in,
these projects,” Morgan Stanley said. “We take environmental issues very seriously and in financing
any project, we always examine the potential environmental impacts.”

Citigroup Inc., J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc., all of the U.S., also have
joined a roster of international lenders worried about Abbot Point’s environmental impact. Britain's
Barclays PLC, HSBC Holdings PLC and Royal Bank of Scotland PLC also have said they were
unwilling to get involved. Deutsche Bank AG in May said it wouldn’t offer funding for Abbot Point after
the U.N. condemned a government plan, since reversed, to allow mud and rock dredged from the sea
floor during an expansion to be dumped in waters near the reef.

The Rainforest Action Network commended the banks’ decisions not to provide funding. The
U.S.-based environmental group is campaigning to stop the Abbot Point expansion.

Abbot Point, on the fringe of the Great Barrier Reef in tropical Queensland, would handle as much as
60 million tons of coal from the Carmichael mine. It would also handle coal from a mine proposed by
India’s GVK Power & Infrastructure Ltd. and Hancock Prospecting Pty. Ltd., which is owned by Gina
Rinehart, Australia’s richest person.

A spokesman for GVK and Hancock said the proposed expansion had been through a comprehensive
environmental assessment supervised by state and national governments and that work to develop the
terminal would “meet all obligations relating to responsible environmental and social management
practices.”

Page194of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Adani said the terminal wasn’t in a World Heritage area and that its environmental approvals were
“among the most rigorous and stringent ever applied in Australia, the U.S.A. or the rest of the world.” It
said no funding had been sought from Citibank, Goldman Sachs or J.P. Morgan Chase.
The reluctance among banks could complicate the search for funding by Adani and GVK. Coal is
Australia’s second-largest export, after iron ore, with much of it shipped through eastern ports to Asia.
The possible expansion of Abbot Point, Australia’s northernmost coal port, has proved more
contentious than other port projects. The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization has voiced concerns about the health of the reef, which is on Unesco’s World Heritage
List because of the reef’s scientific interest.

State and federal government leaders have supported Abbot Point’s expansion as they look to rekindle
mining investment and boost the economy. Prime Minister Tony Abbott said recently that “coal is good
for humanity,” a vote of confidence in an industry that has been hurt as prices of coal for steelmaking
and power generation have hit multiyear lows.
Mining from northeast Australia’s Galilee Basin could push the country past Indonesia as the world’s
top coal exporter. Mr. Abbott, whose conservative government has been rolling back environmental
regulations, said this month at the opening of a 3.9 billion Australian dollar (US$3.4 billion)
coal-mining venture in the Bowen Basin that coal would remain the world’s main energy source for
decades.

Abbot Point is part of a debate in Australia over investment in resource projects that opponents say run
the risk of fueling climate change by supplying steel mills and coal-fired power stations, often in
countries with weak emissions controls, such as China and India. Australian National University this
month sold its investment portfolio in several large energy and resource companies, citing
environmental risks.

adexns : Adani Enterprises Ltd | rnfan : Rainforest Action Network | dwitd : Morgan Stanley | hksbc :
HSBC Holdings PLC | gvkpoi : GVK Power & Infrastructure Ltd
i111 : Coal Mining | i112 : Coal Mining Support Activities | i5020017 : Harbor Construction | i1 : Energy |
i502 : Heavy Construction | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | iconst : Construction | icre : Real
Estate/Construction | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i16101 : Electric Power
Generation | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | i83101 :
Investment Banking | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ibnk
: Banking/Credit | ieutil : Electric Utilities | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities | iutil :
Utilities
c182 : Asset Transactions | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News |
genv : Environmental News | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | gcat :
Political/General News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | india : India | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | indsubz :
Indian Subcontinent | sasiaz : Southern Asia
Asian Business News
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document WSJO000020141027eaar002jp

CO

IN

NS

RE

IPD
PUB
AN

Page195of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.