$3.5B EPC CONTRACT FOR CENTRAL AFRICAN IRON PROJECT

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

$3.5B EPC CONTRACT FOR CENTRAL AFRICAN IRON PROJECT

By Mark Mentiplay
608 words
6 June 2014
Mining Business Media
MIBMED
English
Copyright 2014. Mining Business Media Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved

Perth, Jun 6
International engineering-construction companyMota-Engil Africa has won the $US3.5B engineering,
procurement and construction (EPC) contract to build the port-rail infrastructure for Sundance
Resources’ Mbalam-Nabeba Iron Ore Project that spans the republics of Congo and Cameroon.

Africa’s largest Bank, Standard Bank, has also been appointed as the project’s financial adviser and
lead debt arranger for the rail, port and mines project, with the 3.5 year construction to begin on
financial close expected by mid-2015.

Sundance says discussions are well advanced with a wide variety of potential funding partners, with
export credit agencies, development funds and commercial banks having already expressed interest in
providing debt funding.
Portuguese companyMota-Engil Africa’s contract includes detailed design, construction, testing and
commissioning of a 510km railway from the Mbarga mine in Cameroon to the Mineral Terminal Facility
at Lolabe on the W coast of Cameroon, a 70km rail spur line from the Nabeba mine in the Republic of
Congo to the Cameroon railway and the 35Mtpa deep water Mineral Terminal Facility, including stock
yards, capable of loading China-max vessels.
Sundance CEO-M/D Giulio Casello says the 2 key appointments “are a major vote of confidence in not
only our company and the project, but in the central African countries of Cameroon and Congo, and our
belief that this will become a world-class iron ore region. The Mbalam-Nabeba Iron Ore Project will be
one of the lowest cash-cost producing assets in the world.”

In order to secure terms for the EPC contract and debt funding, Sundance is looking at a project
debt-to-equity ratio of better than 70:30 to be finalised in parallel with the financial close target.
However, the Western Australian company is also considering an alternative funding strategy based on
an own operate and transfer model for the port-rail infrastructure.

Following the closure of the tender process in April 2014 for the second package of project works,
Sundance has received 3 proposals for construction of the mine plants and associated infrastructure,
which includes accommodation villages, workshops, a diesel power plant and an aerodrome.

The next step requires the selection of one of the contractors to complete front-end engineering and
design (FEED) work to generate a fixed-price contract. Completion of FEED is expected to take about 6
months.

In March this year, global commodities trader Noble Resources Int’l signed a 10-year off-take agreement
for 50% or more of all production from the planned 35Mtpa project, which has a minimum life of 25
years, including the $4.7B,10-year first stage that will produce high-grade hematite DSO and at least a
further 15 years of itabirite hematite concentrate product.
The group of large-scale iron ore deposits spanning the Cameroon-RoC border has total high grade
hematite resources of 775Mt at 57.2% Fe, including ore reserves of 436.3Mt at 62.6%. The additional
itabirite resource of 4.05Bt at 36.3% can be beneficiated to produce a 66% Fe concentrate.

Page148of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Sundance Resources Limited

Exchange Code:ASX: SDL Website:http://www.sundanceresources.com.au
Australian-based company focused on development of a nerw iron ore province in central west Africa

Noble Group (Noble Resources International)

Exchange Code:SGX: N21 Website:http://www.thisisnoble.com
Listed in Singapore and headquartered in Hong Kong, the company is a natural resources supply
chain manager of agricultural and energy products, metals and minerals, with interests in coal and iron
ore mines, ports, vessels and other key infrasructure.

 

 

CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

engsg : Mota-Engil SGPS SA
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying | icre : Real Estate/Construction
c33 : Contracts/Orders | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | cnatrd : Natural Reserves/Resources
Discovery | c333 : Non-governmental Contracts | c24 : Capacity/Facilities | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
camer : Cameroon | austr : Australia | africaz : Africa | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
ceafrz : Central Africa | dvpcoz : Developing Economies
Mining Business Media Pty Ltd
Document MIBMED0020140606ea6600003

Page149of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.