Tradition just what the doctor ordered

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Tradition just what the doctor ordered

CAMERON ENGLAND
1,608 words
30 November 2014
The Advertiser
ADVTSR
Advertiser
58
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

DYNASTIES OF SOUTH AUSTRALIA

Famed for its wines and St Agnes Brandy, Angove Family Winemakers is now under the stewardship
of a fifth generation, descendants of a Cornish medical man who first produced his tipple as a tonic for
patients. Chief business writer CAMERON ENGLAND meets patriarch John Angove and the young
blood on his team.

AS far as wine regions go, Tea Tree Gully doesn’t naturally spring to mind when you think of fine South
Australian reds.

But unlikely as it seems these days – with the area trapped between the foothills and a swathe of
suburbia – Angove Family Winemakers grew some of the best grapes in the state there, back before
the march of progress swallowed the company’s land.

In fact some grapes grown in the area were incorporated into the earliest vintages of Penfolds Grange
Hermitage.

Those familiar with the north-eastern suburbs will remember how, not so long ago, the white tower of
the Angove’s winery and distillery on North East Rd signalled the impending transition from the plains
to the Adelaide Hills.

The heritage-listed tower still stands, but the vineyards which surrounded it were wiped out effectively
by the stroke of a pen in 1974. The State Government rezoned the area from agricultural to residential
and compulsorily acquired the vineyards three generations of the Angove family had developed.

Current family patriarch John Angove said the decision was “devastating’’ for his father, Tom.
But it is the mark of a family business, currently under the stewardship of its fifth generation, that it can
adapt, stay relevant and survive the vicissitudes of government policy, fickle consumer taste and the
challenge of being both a business and part of a family.

Angove Family Winemakers is possibly better known to many South Australians simply as Angove’s –
the name was changed in 2007 – and is known for its wines, for the famous St Agnes Brandy and for
Stones Green Ginger Wine, which it brews under licence from Stone’s of London.

The Angove story began in Tea Tree Gully in 1886, when Cornish-born Dr William Thomas Angove
and his family settled there and soon established a small vineyard.

As seems to be a common theme for South Australia’s historic beverage makers, Dr Angove first
produced his product as a tonic for his patients.

By 1892, he had 10 acres (4ha) in production, and planted another 20 acres the following year with
varieties such as cabernet and malbec.

Page236of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.In 1904-05 Dr Angove established his own winery, where he crushed his own grapes, plus those from
his good friend and neighbour Henry Hall’s Warboys Vineyard – named for a small village in the east of
England.

The earliest records of Angove’s wines are of the 1895 riesling and white madeira. Dr Angove entered
his wines for judging at the Royal Agricultural and Horticultural Society Show the following year, where
they won a highly commended citation.
In 1897, the first wine – a claret – was released under the St Agnes label and an iconic SA brand was
born.
The Tea Tree Gully distillery was established in 1908 and the company expanded rapidly, leasing
vineyards, including some owned by St Peter’s College.
Angove & Sons was also the first company to establish a winery and distillery on the River Murray in
SA, at Renmark – still the headquarters of the company – in 1910.

Among the milestones for Angove were the release of St Agnes Brandy in 1934 and the establishment
of export arm Dominion Wines in 1929.
“In 1956-57 (Angove) was the third largest wine shipper from Australia and in 1957-58 ranked second
to the Emu Wine Company,’’ the company’s history, A Journey in Wine, says.
The company bought 809ha of land near Renmark in 1962 – its first substantial landholding in the
region. It still has substantial landholdings and its main winery and distillery in the Riverland. An old
painting of the original Brightlands cellars at Tea Tree Gully watches over the boardroom where John,
daughter Victoria, 37, and son Richard, 35, now make decisions as board members.
John was working in the business by the time the SA Land Commission compulsorily acquired the
Angove vineyards on Tolley Rd, Modbury.

Father Tom told one of his staff at the time, “we’re finished down here’’. John said there was never any
“recognised pressure’’ from his father to be part of the business. “The company’s come through a
very fine line of succession with only one member in all four generations up to me actually taking on the
running of the company,’’ he said.

“I really didn’t have any great feel for it.’’ John studied science at university but thought he “might as
well find out what the family business is all about before I say, ‘I’m not interested’.’’ He also studied
business, which he enjoyed a lot, but it was a trip to Europe with his father to meet some of the
overseas customers that tipped the scales.
John stayed in Europe for another 18 months, working in the Australian Wine Centre in London, before
returning to join the business full-time in 1972. He took over as managing director in 1983 – a role he
still holds.
While the business had always been run by a male, family lore has it that John’s elder daughter,
Victoria, told her father she would be running the business once she grew up.
“As it’s evolved, both Victoria and Richard are very happily committed to the business,’’ John says.

Victoria adds: “But we both got here in very different ways. I was very obsessed with it from an early
age, once mum and dad banned me from politics, but Richard got here in a very different way.’’
Richard says he wanted to be a snow-ski instructor “but soon found out that wasn’t very sustainable’’.

“I was lucky enough to work vintage in the winery and got a taste for winemaking, then went back to
university and did postgraduate winemaking.’’ Richard then worked vintages in the Hunter Valley,
Tasmania, and around the world, including Napa Valley.

He came back to Angove’s when Victoria went on maternity leave in 2009. Richard now runs the
McLaren Vale operation of the business and is involved with winemaking and marketing. Victoria has
an eye for business and works in sales, marketing and finance.
A third sibling, Sophie, has steered away from the wine business, thinking that two in the company is
plenty. She works in diet research and is currently undertaking a PhD.

Angove Family Winemakers has changed considerably since it last processed fruit at its Tea Tree Gully
Winery.

Page237of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The old favourites, such as St Agnes Brandy, are still going strong but the company now has a new
cellar door in McLaren Vale on a vineyard it bought in 2008, named after Henry Hall’s Warboys
vineyard in Tea Tree Gully.
The company has add-ed a premium range to its product offering, led by the Flagship Medhyk Shiraz
from McLaren Vale. In a nod to the company’s roots, Medhyk is Cornish for “doctor’’.
The company also has a micro-winery at its Renmark site, where it can produce small batches of
high-quality product, some of which is sold only at the cellar door.

The family, in its current setting, appears to have a complementary set of skills.
Victoria says she “really enjoy(s) business’’ and “adores wine’’, but is not interested in being hands on
with the winemaking. “Behind us we have an amazing team of hardworking, dedicated and committed
people who actually make it all happen.” She first began in sales at Angove, followed by a job at the
International Wine and Spirit Challenge in London.

On her return to Angove, she focused on sales and marketing and export market development,
broadening the company’s exports into areas like China and South-East Asia.

Richard has degrees in management and winemaking. He now predominantly works on sales and
marketing, and has judged in wine shows, such as the Adelaide and Victorian wine shows.
“To come into the other side of the business, to sales and marketing, and how you get your product
into the market is really interesting,’’ he says.
Richard came back at the right time, as Victoria went on maternity leave and the company started to
plan then build its new cellar door at McLaren Vale, opening in 2011. “We’ve been quite amazed and
delighted at how well we’ve been received down here, there’s a lovely sense of community,’’ Victoria
says.
“Every generation brings change and renewal to a business. What we were 50 years ago is so
different to what we are today.” The siblings clearly get along well, although Richard jokes they did a
conflict-management course to help them work together.
John, who was awarded a Member of the Order of Australia in 2011 for his services to the wine
industry, the arts and his charity work, is managing director, dividing his time between Renmark and
McLaren Vale, were access to his grandchildren is a fringe benefit.

The family seems fairly confident there will be some involvement from the sixth generation.

While it’s too early to have them out pruning the organic vines, which make up the Warboys vineyard,
Victoria says her daughter, Emily, is already showing a keen interest.And, when they are travelling for
work, Victoria says it is comforting for the children to know that they’re also being kept company by
“Uncle Richie” or ‘‘Papa John”.

IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

i426 : Wine | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | ialco : Alcoholic Beverages/Drinks | ibevrge :
Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | eland : England | saustr : South Australia | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia
Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | uk : United
Kingdom | weurz : Western Europe
News Ltd.
Document ADVTSR0020141129eabu0001k

Page238of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.