Kyodo news summary -9-

HD
CR
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Kyodo news summary -9-

Kyodo
545 words
11 June 2014
23:14
Kyodo News
KYODO
English
(c) 2014 Kyodo News

TOKYO, June 11 -- ----------

Japan, Australia effectively conclude defense equipment talks

TOKYO - Japan and Australia said Wednesday they have reached a "substantial conclusion" of
negotiations for an agreement on defense equipment and technology cooperation, paving the way for
a possible transfer of Tokyo's submarine technology to Canberra.

The foreign and defense ministers of the two countries said after a meeting in Tokyo that they
discussed preparations for joint research on marine hydrodynamics used for submarines as an initial
area of science and technology cooperation. Australia has shown strong interest in Japan's submarine
technology.

----------
Chinese fighter jets fly close to SDF planes above E. China Sea
TOKYO - Two Chinese fighter jets flew unusually close to two Japanese Self-Defense Forces planes
on Wednesday above the East China Sea where the two countries' air defense identification zones
overlap, Japan's Defense Ministry said.
Defense Minister Itsunori Onodera told reporters the government lodged a protest with China through
diplomatic channels over the incident.

----------

Renesas to sell display chip unit to Synaptics for 48.5 bil. yen

TOKYO - Struggling electronics maker Renesas Electronics Corp. said Wednesday it will sell its
Tokyo-based display chip subsidiary Renesas SP Drivers Inc. to U.S. IT companySynaptics Inc.
The purchase price of the subsidiary, which develops semiconductors for liquid crystal displays, is
expected to be about 48.5 billion yen, according to Synaptics.

----------
TEPCO to support Saudi Arabian utility on energy-saving measures

TOKYO - Tokyo Electric Power Co. said Wednesday it has concluded an agreement with a Saudi
Arabian national electricity supplier to support the Middle Eastern company's energy efficiency
initiatives.
Under the consultation contract, TEPCO will provide advice to Saudi Electricity Company from this
August through next November by introducing steps adopted in Japan to save energy and curb
electricity losses at power distribution equipment.

----------

Page215of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.MiG-29 crashes in Myanmar, no casualties

YANGON, Myanmar - A Myanmar air force plane on a training flight crashed Tuesday in central
Myanmar but no one was hurt, the Information Ministry said.

The MiG-29 fighter, from Magwe Air base, caught fire midair and crashed in a field near Myothit
township in Magwe Region around 8:30 a.m., the ministry said.

----------

TPP chief negotiators to meet in Vancouver from July 3

TOKYO - Chief negotiators from 12 countries in a U.S.-led Pacific free trade initiative will gather in
Vancouver from July 3 to discuss remaining issues, as they seek to complete talks for the world's
biggest free trade zone at an early date, sources close to the matter said Wednesday.

A meeting at the ministerial level, which usually convenes after a chief negotiators' gathering, will only
take place if major progress is seen during the 10-day working-level talks, the sources said.

----------

Japan Tobacco to buy British e-cigarette maker Zandera
TOKYO - Japan Tobacco Inc. said Wednesday it will purchase British electronic cigarette maker
Zandera Ltd. in a deal that will give JT an entry into the fast-growing market of battery-powered
vaporizers that simulate tobacco smoking.

The two companies have reached an agreement for JT to acquire all outstanding shares of Zandera
through its group firm by September. JT declined to reveal how much it will spend on the acquisition.

==Kyodo

CO
IN

NS

RE

IPD
IPC
PUB
AN

jpda : Japan Ministry of Defense
ievd : Electronic Cigarettes | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3454 : Electronic Consumer Goods |
ielec : Consumer Electronics | ihandaps : Handheld Electronic Devices | itech : Technology
gdip : International Relations | gcat : Political/General News | ncdig : Corporate Digests | nsum : News
Digests | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce :
FC&E Exclusion Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
jap : Japan | burma : Myanmar | austr : Australia | tokyo : Tokyo | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | seasiaz :
Southeast Asia
News Summary
0181
Kyodo News
Document KYODO00020140611ea6b005xy

Page216of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.