RWE (CM) Innocent Inc Announces Restructure to Management Team

HD
WC 410 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

RWE (CM) Innocent Inc Announces Restructure to Management Team

5 June 2014
Resources News (RWE)
RESNEW
English
Copyright 2014 RWE Australian Business News Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved.

TD

RWE (CM) Innocent Inc Announces Restructure to Management Team
Sydney - Wednesday - June 04 (RWE) - Innocent Inc, a development stage oil and gas exploration and
production company, announces that it has accepted the resignation of Wayne Doss.

The company's current Chief Operating Officer, Patrick Johnson, has been promoted to be the
company's new Chief Executive Officer.

Additionally, Terry Lynch was appointed as new President and Chairman of the Board.

Mr Lynch graduated in 1981 from St Francis Xavier University with a joint honours degree in Economics
and BBA Prior to becoming CEO of Chilean Metals Inc [TSX VENTURE: CMX] in 2012, Mr Lynch had
been CEO of privately held Relief Gold.

He also had been a director and later CEO of TSX-listed Firstgold Corp He assumed the CEO position
after the company had run into financial difficulty bringing its Relief Canyon mine into production.
He arranged a sale of 51% of the company for a total capital injection of $26.5 million from Northwest
Non Ferrous Metals, one of China's largest mining engineering and consulting groups.
However, due to the rejection of the takeover by the US government, the company filed for bankruptcy.

From October 2005 to August 2008 Mr Lynch was a partner with Kingsmill Capital Partners, a financial
advisory firm specializing in advising public and private early stage growth companies.

Prior to joining Kingsmill Capital, he spent 15 years operating startup companies in industrial products,
media and oil and gas where he was President & Co-founder of Pacific Tiger Energy, a Canadian-listed
company ultimately acquired by Pan Orient Energy Corp [TSX VENTURE: POE].

Patrick Johnson, CEO of Innocent, stated, "We face considerable challenges in front of us in order to
restore and create additional shareholder value and feel Terry's expertise in corporate restructuring and
capital formation will be very helpful.
Our objective in the short term is to provide a stable balance sheet for the company as we move towards
our long term goal of creating a technology-driven North American oil and gas exploration and production
company.
About Innocent IncInnocent Inc is a development stage oil and gas exploration and production company
focused on developing properties in North America.

Innocent Inc plans to minimize the risk of exploration through development of proved petroleum reserves,
and expects to maximize profit through strategic acquisition and liquidation of selected oil and gas
properties.

ENDS

CO
IN

inowho : Innocent, Inc. | pbxre : Chilean Metals Inc
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i61 : Wholesalers | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources |
ifodwh : Food Wholesaling | imet : Mining/Quarrying

Page215of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

c411 : Management Moves | ceffic : Corporate Process Redesign | cslmc : Senior Level Management |
c11 : Plans/Strategy | c41 : Management Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types |
nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB RWE Australian Business News Pty Ltd
AN

Document RESNEW0020140604ea6500036

Page216of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.