Orica mulls fate of chemical arm

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Finance
Orica mulls fate of chemical arm

MATT CHAMBERS, MANUFACTURING
562 words
31 January 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
1 - All-round Country
19
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

EXPLOSIVES maker Orica says it is considering all options in a review of its $1.2 billion-a-year
industrial chemicals business, including a complete exit, as the dour Australian manufacturing
environment hits profits.
The review comes as Orica chief Ian Smith says reduced growth spending in the mining sector,
whose business the company is increasingly targeting, could sow the seeds for another boom within
two or three years.

The industrial, or non-mining, chemicals group sits separate to the firm's much bigger
integrated-mining services division.
Its 2013 earnings before interest and tax of $92 million was less than half the chemicals profit
recorded in 2011, with revenue of $1.2bn only having slipped 16 per cent in that time.

Mr Smith said an external appraisal of the chemicals business, whose operating assets are valued at
$651m in Orica's books, was done last year. ``We're now using that information to assess how it sits
within the company, where it sits within the company, whether we pursue a different direction with
chemicals or whether we change the apportionment of capital towards chemicals, allowing it to grow at
a faster pace,'' he said after Orica's annual meeting in Melbourne yesterday.
A sale of the unit was being considered along with the other options, he said.

The main earner of the chemicals business is supply of sulfuric and caustic asic to big industrial plants,
including BlueScope Steel and oil refineries.

It also has a food and cosmetics business and a plastics business that supplies inserts for the car
industry and plastics for National Broadband Network cables.

``The income and outcome for chemicals is really a reflection of what's going on in Australia from a
general manufacturing viewpoint,'' Mr Smith said.

``The core is under some pressure because of what's happening with heavy industry around Australia,
people have flagged certain refineries are going to be closing. In plastics we have to review how to
position ourselves because the car industry is under pressure.''

But the food and cosmetics business was growing and was expanding into Asia, he said.
Mr Smith said mining services, which took in the rest of Orica's $6.9bn of revenue last year, continued
to position the company to beat 2013's $602m profit.

After an unusually low-volume 2013, things had improved, he said.

Page162of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.``We're now back into normal pace waiting for the next boom, which I'm assured is only just around
the corner in the next 12 to 24 months,'' the former Newcrest Mining and Rio Tinto executive told
shareholders.

After the meeting, Mr Smith said the comments represented a bit of wishful thinking, but that
widespread moves across the mining sector to slash capital spending over the past year would start
to lead to supply shortages.
``You have the turning off of the (supply) tap and the fundamental point that China is still going to be
growing and India is going to be growing,'' he said.

``With capital being turned off, you know that within 18 to 36 months, there's going to be a
supply-demand flip over for some significant resource plays.''
The company's remuneration report and Mr Smith's bonus were comfortably approved, as was the
re-election to the board of new chairman, Russell Caplan.

CO
IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

iciaal : Orica Ltd
i2565 : Explosives | i25 : Chemicals | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources
c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | reqrch : Suggested Reading Chemicals | c15 :
Financial Performance | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News
Filter | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140130ea1v0002d

Page163of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.