Adani armto raise$1.5 bn in overseas debt

Adani armto raise$1.5 bn in overseas debt

P.R. SANJAI & JOEL REBELLO

HD
BY
WC 759 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

16 May 2014
MintAsia
HTMINA
English
Copyright 2014. HT Media Ltd.

TD

Mumbai, May 16 -- Adani Enterprises Ltd, the port and power generation subsidiary of the $8 billion
(around '48,000 crore) Adani Group, has started meeting investors to raise $1.5 billion in overseas debt
this year, three people familiar with the plan said. Adani Enterprises is trying to take advantage of global
investor appetite for Indian debt, which is reining in the cost of raising funds overseas.

The first tranche under the fund raising plan would be raised this month via a Singapore $200 million
(around '960 crore) five-year bond issue, the people said. The bonds will be sold by the company's
subsidiary Adani Abbot Point Terminal Pty Ltd, and could be a precursor to a larger issue later this year,
the people said on condition of anonymity because the information is not public yet. Standard Chartered
Plc. and Singapore's DBS Bank Ltd are the bankers to the Singapore dollar sale, which will open later this
month in Australia, where Adani Abbot is based. "Right now bankers are only gauging the investor mood
through a roadshow that started earlier today. It may take a while before the issue really opens," said one
of the persons quoted above. "They are planning a large issue and this could be just a small one to check
investor appetite. Once they see investor demand it is possible that they will open and close the issue in a
hurry, but it has not come to that stage as yet," said the second person. The proceeds of the issue will
likely be used for the company's power projects in India and coal projects in Australia. Adani Enterprises,
the holding company of Adani Abbot Point, declined to comment for this story. Last October, Adani Abbot
raised Australian $500 million (around '2,850 crore) by selling five-year bonds which were priced 225
basis points above the five-year local swap rate, which was then at 3.78%. Deutsche Bank AG and
Australia-based Westpac Banking Corp. and Commonwealth Bank of Australia were the bankers to that
issue. The company is also in the market to raise money in Swiss francs.
Roadshows for the sale were held in March, said one of the persons quoted above. If successful, Adani
will become the 14th entity from India to raise funds via foreign currency bonds this year. So far in 2014,
13 entities including banks have raised a total $7.38 billion through the issue of overseas bonds in
different currencies. In 2013, Indian corporations raised more than $14 billion from overseas bond mar-
kets. Debt sold by Indian firms has become attractive for investors given an improvement in some
economic indicators like the current account deficit and fiscal deficit that have both narrowed and recent
stability in the local currency, said N.S. Venkatesh, head of treasury at IDBI Bank Ltd. Expectations that a
stable government will emerge from the ongoing general elections and will unlock stalled investments in
the economy is also adding to the positive investor sentiment, he said. "This coupled with the fact that
China has slowed, Europe is still not out of the woods and mutual funds, institutional investors and
pension funds in the US are flush with cash looking for alternative investment opportunities have
supported demand for Indian paper," Venkatesh said.
IDBI Bank raised $300 million by selling bonds maturing in 5.5 years through its Dubai branch in March
priced at 5.06%. It had received bids totalling $2.2 billion from overseas investors. Besides, IDBI, Oil
India Ltd, Indian Railway Finance Corp. Ltd, ICICI Bank Ltd, Bharat Petroleum Corp. Ltd, State Bank of
India, Sterling Biotech Ltd, Export-Import Bank of India and Union Bank of India are among entities that
have raised money from overseas debt offerings recently.
Investor optimism around India has also been reflected in the local currency and equity market which
have both gained since the start of the calendar year. The rupee, which touched an all-time low of 68.85
per dollar on 28 August 2013, has gained 3% this year, making it one of the top three performing
currencies in Asia. The 30-share benchmark Sensex of BSE has gained 5.54% since January as foreign
investors bought a net $5.4 billion of local shares.

Page19of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Published by HT Syndication with permission from MintAsia.

CT

CO

IN

NS

RE

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com
adexns : Adani Enterprises Ltd | dbsbsg : DBS Bank Limited | stan : Standard Chartered PLC | devbnk :
DBS Group Holdings Limited
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs :
Business/Consumer Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
c172 : Corporate Debt Instruments | c17 : Funding/Capital | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News
Filter
india : India | austr : Australia | mumbai : Mumbai | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | indsubz : Indian Subcontinent | mahara : Maharashtra | sasiaz : Southern Asia

PUB HT Media Limited
AN

Document HTMINA0020140516ea5g0005m

Page20of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.