routes
445 words
18 February 2014
Thai News Service
THAINS
English
(c) 2014 Thai News Service

World: Emirates, Jetstar in code-sharing agreement for Australia, New Zealand and SE Asian routes

WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business News

SE
HD World: Emirates, Jetstar in code-sharing agreement for Australia, New Zealand and SE Asian

Section: Business News - Emirates and Jetstar have announced an agreement that is set to open up new
destinations for Emirates passengers across Australia, New Zealand and Southeast Asia as the
Dubai-based airline continues its mission "to connect people, places and passions", The Nation reports.

Emirates' code will now be placed on a number of routes operated by Jetstar Airways in Australia and
New Zealand and Jetstar Asia, giving passengers access to 27 new routes and six new destinations such
as Bali in Indonesia, Hamilton Island in Australia, Dunedin in New Zealand and Siem Reap in Cambodia.

Members of Emirates Skywards, the airline's frequent-flyer programme, will be able to earn Miles for
flights on Jetstar-operated routes which have the Emirates code. They will also be able to use their Miles
to purchase reward flights on any Jetstar operated route, starting from just 7,025 Skywards Miles.

"This new link between Emirates and Jetstar offers our passengers a number of benefits including new
routes to destinations that are not part of the Emirates network today," said Adnan Kazim, Emirates
divisional senior vice president, Planning, Aero-political and Industry Affairs.

"The link between Emirates and Jetstar is also fantastic news for our Emirates Skywards members, giving
them more options to use their miles to explore new countries and cultures," he added.

"This agreement will see us bring our extensive Asia-Pacific network consisting of some of the most
popular leisure destinations, to the doorstep of Emirates passengers across the globe," said Lisa Brock,
Jetstar Group chief commercial officer.

"Working with Emirates, we have created a product and a network offering that will provide Emirates
passengers with a range of new holiday options, in turn driving inbound tourism traffic to Australian
destinations including Hamilton Island, Byron Bay and Uluru.

"Emirates customers travelling on Jetstar will enjoy a range of full-service fare features such as food and
beverage options and the same luggage allowance they would have on Emirates," she added.

From April 6, all Emirates passengers on Jetstar flights will receive boarding passes on check-in at their
departure point for connecting international services.

The code-share includes seven domestic routes in Australia to add to the 50 that Emirates already
code-shares with Qantas; four new routes in New Zealand; six new routes between Australia and New
Zealand over the Tasman Sea; and 10 international routes out of Singapore to Indonesia, Cambodia,
Vietnam, Malaysia, Thailand and Hong Kong.

Emirates, one of the fastest-growing international airlines, connects Bangkok to its Dubai hub with 35
weekly flights.

CO
IN

emtal : Emirates Airline | oxair : Jetstar Airways Pty Ltd | qntas : Qantas Airways Ltd
i75 : Airlines | iairtr : Air Transport | itsp : Transportation/Shipping | i7501 : Scheduled Passenger Airlines |
ilowair : Low Cost Airlines

Page18of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

nz : New Zealand | kampa : Cambodia | austr : Australia | indon : Indonesia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz :
Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies
| indochz : Indo-China | seasiaz : Southeast Asia

PUB Thai News Service Co. Ltd.
AN

Document THAINS0020140217ea2i0001e

Page19of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.