Chinese buyers could face extra fees

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Chinese buyers could face extra fees

Jacob Greber Economics correspondent
813 words
30 August 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
1
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

A proposal to hit Chinese property buyers with extra stamp duties or fees is under active
consideration by a parliamentary committee charged with finding a solution to the nation's housing
affordability crisis.
With the busiest season for real estate sales about to start, community concern is growing that
cashed-up mainland Chinese buyers are pricing Australians out of their own market.

The parliamentary committee is looking at a number of options, including a charge on Foreign
Investment Review Board approval for residential property.

An even more dramatic measure to be considered by the joint-Coalition and Labor committee – due to
report in October – is whether extra stamp duty should be imposed on all foreign buyers. The move
could mirror Singapore's 2011 decision to curb excessive offshore buying with a 10 per cent duty.

Proponents argue that as well as generating extra revenue for government, the measure would be
similar in concept to the royalties charged by states like Queensland and Western Australia on iron
ore shipments.

Committee chair Kelly O'Dwyer told AFR Weekend that the body would look at what other countries
were doing to address potentially distorting impacts of foreign investment. "Obviously this is an issue
that needs to be considered," she said of the capital charge.

The push to potentially impose restrictions jars with warnings by Treasurer Joe Hockey and the
Business Council of Australia, which warned on Friday against discouraging Chinese investment more
broadly in the economy. Other investment experts say FIRB rules had become riddled with
inconsistencies.

Ms O'Dwyer, a Liberal MP, indicated the committee would almost certainly call for changes in
conveyancing forms to identify the nationality of buyers.

Other potential recommendations would include tough new penalties for foreign buyers who breached
FIRB rules. One option would be to introduce a sliding-scale of penalties for offshore law-breakers
based on a percentage of the property's value.

"We want to make sure the laws are enforced and people have confidence . . . that those who don't
observe those laws face significant penalties."

The House of Representatives economics committee heard fresh evidence on Friday from FIRB
chairman Brian Wilson who said it was "very difficult and very expensive" to police foreign buyers who
deliberately concealed their identity to illegally purchase existing Australian property.
He also welcomed the prospect of using property conveyancers to collect information on the identity
of buyers and verify their foreign residency status on an electronic form.

Page42of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."This is the single-biggest cost effective step that could be taken to shine a light on what's happening,"
he said.
The hearing heard from real estate agents that many Chinese buyers regarded the potential
maximum $85,000 penalty for illegally buying an existing home as a "cost of doing business" in
Australia.
Demand from Chinese buyers is expected to stay strong in coming years – particularly in the upper
reaches of the market – as they move to shelter capital from the Chinese government and provide
housing for their children's education, according to industry experts.
However fears that the surge in money from China could overwhelm the local market have become
inflamed in recent months following the publication in March by investment bank Credit Suisse of a
report forecasting Chinese nationals would buy around $44 billion in residential real estate over the
next seven years.
Stuart Button, First National Real Estate's national communications manager - speaking to AFR
Weekend after addressing the hearing on Friday – said his company's agents had found that in key
parts of Sydney and Melbourne mainland Chinese buyers were likely responsible for one in four of the
top end purchases.

Mr Button said while foreign investors were helping Australia's economy by funding the construction of
new dwellings, there was a growing public perception that they were being outbid by foreign nationals.
"It's a fantastic thing for the economy. For developers to pre-sell to Chinese, Indians or whoever
enables them to get their projects off the ground and finished, which means rents don't go up and
affordability improves," he said.

"But if the general public has a perception the system is failing and foreign nationals are
beating Australians out of the market that's a problem that can be addressed by more information."

Ed Husic, the Economics Committee's Labor co-chairman, said he was still weighing the pros and
cons of a capital impost, and warned there needed to be a clear objective behind the move. "If it's
supposed to calm the market down and the starting point is that you think foreign investment is heating
it up – which is still debatable – then you have to know what the impact on demand would actually be,"
he said. "And how high would such a fee have to be  . . . it would need to be prohibitive."

NS

RE

PUB
AN

ereal : Real Estate Markets | npag : Page-One Stories | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat
: Economic News | ncat : Content Types
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140829ea8u0006a

Page43of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.