India adopting a proactive stance

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

India adopting a proactive stance

992 words
15 November 2014
New Straits Times
NSTRAT
16
English
(c) 2014 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad.

FOR all the "Look East, Act East" stance taken by its new government, India was the odd man out at
Beijing's Apec Summit that ended, ironically, on the day Prime Minister Narendra Modi embarked on a
high profile three-nation tour of the east.
India did not attend despite Modi being invited by Chinese President Xi Jinping. New Delhi has, in the
past, avoided forums where it could get into confrontation with China or Pakistan. This kind of
exclusivist approach does not help.

For its eastward thrust to succeed, Modi should be knocking at Apec's door while seeking a stake in
free trade blocs, such as the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership and the proposed Free
Trade Area of the Asia-Pacific.
One would have liked Modi to invite the Myanmar president, and also the Chinese, for his swearing-in
ceremony in May along with the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) leaders,
with the ethnic Indian-majority Mauritius being an exception.
But then, China is not a SAARC member and Myanmar, an Asean member, belongs to Southeast
Asia. Yet, it has a physical proximity and is India's gateway to Southeast Asia.

As this is published, Modi will likely have met Myamnar's leadership and in particular, for the first time,
its charismatic leader Aung San Suu Kyi. Like other nations, India is watching with interest if the
country will amend its law to facilitate her contesting the elections.

Myanmar's dark phase is over and the new leadership, despite halts and road blocks, is working
towards democracy. India has invested much in Myanmar in the past decade, which really should be
stepped up.

Using India as the nodal point, the United States and Japan have a unique opening in building greater
East-West connectivity through Myanmar into Southeast Asia.

At Nay Pyi Taw, Modi attended the Asean-India Summit and the East Asia Summit, seeking and
renewing contacts with two scores of leaders, together and some bilaterally, including those of
Thailand, South Korea and Singapore.

At his meeting with Prime Minister Datuk Seri Najib Razak, Modi invited Malaysian companies to come
to India, saying there are a "lot of opportunities" for them in his ambitious "Make in India" campaign.

Indeed, in this month of summits, these two come as the world's geopolitical focus shifts increasingly to
Asia, marked by China's rise, an assertive Shinzo Abe government in Japan and the US pivot towards
the region.

The contrast with a West Asia in turmoil, unfortunately, is too obvious to be ignored.

But that also carried cautions for all summit attendees at Apec, Asean, East Asia Summit and G20 ¿ on
the need for managing efficiently and fairly political, social and ethnic imbalances and not allowing
non-state actors to terrorise legally and democratically established orders.

Page107of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.For all those meeting at these summits, China is the elephant in the room they must learn to deal with.
Not the least, India has, for a decade now, begun to adopt a proactive stance.

In Modi's case, it was evident first during his Japan visit, then when Xi came visiting and soon after
that, during the visit of Vietnamese Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung.
Despite the lengthening frowns on Chinese faces, India has doggedly stuck to its stake in the South
China Sea. Vietnam responded with new oil exploration blocs to India's defence pact that includes
sale of naval patrol boats and a USD100 million (RM320 million) Indian credit line.

There are challenges and opportunities. Successive Indian governments have been good at identifying
the challenges, but they have been cautious about exploiting the opportunities. Sensitive but promising,
defence and security cooperation in Southeast Asia is one such area.

Quite apart from its growing capacities in this area, India is unique in being a non-threatening power in
this region, in a contrast to widely perceived Chinese aggressiveness.

Modi is gradually seeking to make a difference. It will be some time before concrete results are in
evidence.

Amarnath Ram, a former envoy to Thailand who had worked on the nuts and bolts of India's "Look East
Policy" under then prime minister P.V. Narasimha Rao, credits Modi with bold and clear ideas when it
comes to foreign policy.

He thinks Modi's vision, put into timely, concrete action, could have long-term impact on India's ties
with the entire region.

Visiting Australia 28 years after the late prime minister Rajiv Gandhi did, Modi is scheduled to address
a joint session of its Parliament. This underscores the increasing strategic complementarities between
New Delhi and Canberra, as is also evident from the civil nuclear deal.

The business honchos accompanying him can grab from the huge opportunities in areas, such as
energy, mining and services.

Modi's outreach to the Indian community in Sydney and Melbourne promises to compare with the one
at New York's Madison Square Garden. But more significant would occur in Fiji, the South Pacific
island that has 42 per cent ethnic Indian population.

On Nov 19, Modi will hold a mini-summit in Suva with top leaders of 13 other countries of the region.
His discourse could yield tangible diplomatic gains for India if it focuses on global climate change talks
where the so-called "Durban coalition" of small islands and developed countries is cracking.

This coalition had pressed emerging economies like India to accept binding carbon emission targets.

These island nations form one of the largest voting blocs at the United Nations. India had earlier set up
an online communications system there to win their support for the Indo-US nuclear deal.

Modi's mini summit could send an important signal that India is ready to assert its interests in the Far
East. With a substantial diaspora, Fiji can enhance India's reach in the region. China is there already.
But Modi's outreach will not go unnoticed in Beijing.

( END )

CO
NS

RE

IPC
PUB
AN

saareg : South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation
gdip : International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | nedc : Commentaries/Opinions | gcat :
Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter
china : China | india : India | burma : Myanmar | austr : Australia | delhi : Delhi | apacz : Asia Pacific |
asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | indsubz : Indian
Subcontinent | sasiaz : Southern Asia | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
Comment
New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad
Document NSTRAT0020141117eabf0000k

Page108of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.