Foreign ownership talk

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Foreign ownership talk

559 words
9 August 2014
The Northern Star
APNNOS
Main
7
English
Copyright 2014 APN Newspapers Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved

Treasury figures show in the nine months to March 2014, there has been a substantial jump in the
number of foreign investment approvals and the majority is for new dwellings

THERE’S been a lot of discussion recently about the impact of foreign buying on Australian real estate –
specifically whether foreigners are pushing up prices and also making it too hard for young Australians
to buy their first homes.

There’s a federal parliamentary inquiry and various submissions from authorities such as the Reserve
Bank and the Federal Treasury reflect the same thing real estate agents are seeing on the ground.

While the amount of foreign buying has increased significantly in the past couple of years, it remains a
small portion of overall real estate transactions.

Foreign buyers are pushing up prices to an extent in certain pockets – but not to an unsustainable level.
As is the case with any sale where you have good competition, prices can be pushed higher.

What many are asking; is foreign demand pushing up property prices? The RBA describes the impact
on prices as material. That means there’s an impact but it’s not overly concerning. The whole idea
behind our FIRB rules is to allow foreign investment if it increases supply, which is why overseas-based
investors can only purchase new properties. Therefore, a spike in foreign demand will lead to an
increase in supply and that’s a good thing. But because it takes a while for new supply to come online,
the intermediate effect is an increase in prices because of increased competition for available stock.

Now for the most important point, foreign buyers are generally not competing with first-home buyers –
for two reasons. First, foreigners tend to buy higher priced properties. The average price of a
foreign-purchased established property in 2012-13 was over $1m and about $650,000 for a new
property. This compares with Australia’s median capital city sale price today of $545,000 (RP Data) and
the national average loan size for first home buyers at $303,800.

Secondly, most first-home buyers are still purchasing established dwellings, which foreign investors are
not allowed to buy unless they have temporary or permanent residency. Although we are seeing more
first-home buyers purchasing new apartments because of government grants that only pay for new
properties, the bulk are still buying established homes.

It would be fair to say that Australian buyers of higher end new apartments are increasingly competing
with foreign buyers. But the positive side is the great boost to our construction industry, creating more
jobs at a time when the mining industry is slowing down and skilled labourers are looking for alternative
employment.

On balance, I’d say there are more positives to negatives in the rising foreign investment in Australian
real estate. At McGrath, our China Desk service launched in February has proven very popular and
enabled us to reach more Asian buyers and provide a better level of service to foreign clients. China
was the No 1 foreign buyer in FY13 and I’m expecting the same for FY14.

The parliamentary inquiry has received 43 submissions so far – many from private individuals. The
committee is due to report on October 10. Stay tuned.

Page124of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

RE
PUB
AN

c182 : Asset Transactions | ereal : Real Estate Markets | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate
Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic
News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
APN Newspapers Pty Ltd
Document APNNOS0020140805ea89000ru

Page125of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.