Pitching Australian-made dream to China

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Pitching Australian-made dream to China

LEO SHANAHAN, Exports
727 words
27 October 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
19
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

EXCLUSIVE THE Australian Made green-and-gold kangaroo is about to embark on an audacious
journey to China in a retail opportunity its backers claim could be worth billions to Australian
manufacturers.

The Australian Made logo, which started life under the Hawke government as means of promoting the
importance of buying local, will be used to promote Australian products in up to 200 Australian
Made-branded stores across China in the next two years.

The project is the brainchild of Queensland exporter David Goodwin, who pursued the idea after losing a
Liberal National Party Senate preselection bid to James McGrath.

“After just missing out on the preselection, which was frankly a blessing, I pulled this project off the shelf
and started pursuing it.
“Within two weeks of losing the preselection I was back in China,” Mr Goodwin told The Australian.
Mr Goodwin had been investigating opportunities for export to China on and off for several years and
began to realise the power of the Australian Made logo to Chinese consumers.

“Australian Made so far only concerned with selling products to Australians. It is probably the most
recognised brand in Australia but also out of it. Go to China on our premium products, with the
exception of wine, will have the yellow and gold kangaroo on it. The brand represents what Australia is
to Chinese. It must be clean; it must be green; it must be a wilderness.” Mr Goodwin pitched the idea of
opening retail shops with the logo only a year ago to the Department of Trade, which signed off on Mr
Goodwin’s company using the trademark. “It costs the government absolutely nothing. I’ve leased the
use of the logo from them, and they stand to make a lot out of it in the coming years.” Such was the
momentum of the project, the deal was only finalised in a meeting between Mr Goodwin and Minister for
Small Business Bruce Billson in China last month, with the first shop to open in Shanghai in January.

“I flew into Shanghai to discover the plans for my distribution centre had actually been built. Mr Billson
was in Shanghai and I said, ‘Bill we have a live one here, we have to get on this’. He said he’d meet with
us. After that the capital for the project was approved. The Australian government don’t have to do
anything.
“That will put close to $1 billion behind the Australian Made logo in the next few years. A billion dollars
behind people who run with Australian Made on their products.” The corporate structure has Mr
Goodwin’s Australian-owned company taking a 51 per cent stake in a Chinese company registered in
Shanghai’s free-trade zone.
With Chinese backers, including building material and real estate mogul Jie Zhang, the company will
operate not as a franchise, but what it has termed as a “managed model” where there are a series of
partners in Chinese local provincial provinces.

Page227of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Chinese backers have invested $30 million and the company has what Mr Goodwin described as
“significant trade credit facilities”. Chinese investors in the project will be in Australia for talks with
government officials this week to finalise the deal. Mr Goodwin sees no reason why he can’t have 200
stores within two to three years.

“We have 15 local provinces ready to go, which will provide 10 stores per province. So there’s our first
150.” It is one thing, however, to talk of big plans in China, and another to see them eventuate,
especially given the plan hinges on dealing with a series of provincial governments in a capricious
governance and regulatory environment.

Mr Goodwin said the current graft crackdown would only benefit the Australian Made project.

“In the very short term it might make it harder to get decisions, but in the nearer short term it will ...
enable people to contract with confidence. I’ve been seeing that change over a few years.”Despite the
obvious challenge, he said the potential upside was just too big to ignore, and the real problem would be
keeping up with demand. “Our first order for baby formula was for over $2m paid in cash ... Securing
long-term supply with partners will be a problem if all goes to plan.”

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141026eaar0001b

Page228of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.