Australia trade agreements:Benefits of frantic deal making unclear

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Australia trade agreements:Benefits of frantic deal making unclear

1,212 words
1 December 2014
Nikkei Report
NKRP
English
© Copyright 2014. Nihon Keizai Shimbun, Inc. All rights reserved.

MICHAEL SAINSBURY, Contributing writer

BANGKOK -- Australia has silenced critics who doubted the Abbott government's ability to reach its
goal of negotiating free trade agreements with Japan, South Korea and China by the end of 2014.

In a frantic bout of deal making, the Liberal/National coalition government has reached deals with three
of Australia's four biggest trading partners in less than 14 months. Collectively, the three countries
account for 37% of Australia's trade and buy two-thirds of its exports, according to Trade and
Investment Minister Andrew Robb.

There is still more to come. Prime Minister Tony Abbott and Narendra Modi, his Indian counterpart, said
Nov. 18 that they would together push to reach an agreement too within 12 months. The pacts are to
complement a 2004 agreement with the U.S., Australia's third largest trading partner.

The recent galloping pace of negotiations, however, is raising concerns about the level of compromises
accepted by Abbott to meet his ambitious timetable.
Critics have focused on the China-Australia Free Trade Agreement, referred to as Chafta, in part
because the final text has been "held over" until 2015. The delay has led some diplomats to describe
the deal privately as resembling a "memorandum of understanding" more than a formal bilateral
agreement. It appears many details have not been fully resolved.
There is also concern about concessions, including a provision making it easier for Chinese citizens to
work in Australia, and another raising the threshold for Australian reviews of inbound private Chinese
investments.
In an address unveiling the deal with China, Australia's largest trade partner, Robb said it had
foundations in traditional products, resources, energy and agriculture. "A lot of the growth will, I think,
come about because of the extraordinary service offering we've got -- literally hundreds of services
across the economy -- that are in demand in China and so many parts of the region," he said.

Triumph

The completion of trade pacts with Northeast Asia's three biggest economies marks a triumph for Robb,
whose team of trade negotiators crisscrossed the region tirelessly in pursuit of their goal. The China
agreement had stymied three successive Australian governments after talks commenced in 2005.

A major sticking point in negotiations for all three of the new pacts was access for Australia's agriculture
sector to its partners' domestic markets.
The China pact will create opportunities for Australia's beef and dairy farmers, as well as horticultural
and seafood producers. Meat & Livestock Australia, a farmer-owned marketing and research company,
forecast that the red meat and livestock sector will post an 11 billion Australian dollar ($9.47 billion)
gain from the pact through 2030.
Philip Tracy, chairman of Devondale Murray Goulburn, Australia's largest dairy company, told
members of his cooperative on Nov. 27 the pact was "a huge win for MG and for the dairy industry
broadly." He added, "We could not have predicted a better outcome in the end."

Page165of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.But the products that will gain duty-free access represent just 22% of Australia's agricultural exports to
China, according to Alan Oster, chief economist at National Australia Bank. That is because the pact
excludes Australia's biggest cash crops: wheat, cotton, rice and sugar.

While Robb also highlighted gains in the three pacts for Australian services companies, the reality is
that language and cultural barriers will limit effective access.

Richard Cant, Yangtze River Delta managing partner at consultancy Dezan Shira & Associates, which
advises foreign companies entering China, called Chafta a "good deal." However, "China has got what
it wanted in terms of investment thresholds and it has prized open the door on employment visas,
without really giving away much in return," he added.

The economic impact of the deals is unclear. The Australian government has boasted that they will
bring tens of billions of dollars of extra revenue to Australia, but there has been no official economic
modeling of the impact.

Independent analysts are split. "When the Chafta comes into effect, we can expect it to add between
0.25% and 0.5% to gross domestic product annually," Credit Suisse Group said. "Considering our
current economic growth is running at 3.1%, the forecast effect of Chafta is actually enormous."

Others, like National Australia's Oster, are far less effusive.

"It's very unlikely you ever get a free trade agreement where suddenly it's worth half a percentage point
of your GDP," Oster said at a briefing in Hong Kong. "It might help some, like the dairy industry, more
than others. It certainly makes [Australian agribusiness] a lot more competitive with New Zealand."
He said the deal with China would not change his growth forecast for Australia "one way or the other"
in the next 12 months or have an appreciable impact the year following. This prediction would be in line
with a 2010 report by the government Productivity Commission, which concluded that trade agreements
in general do not boost trade or growth.

Political hurdles
The China deal must pass both houses of the Australian parliament. But the Abbott government lacks a
majority in the Senate and will need to court support from other parties and independents.

That could present problems because trade unions, the core constituency of the opposition Labor party,
are concerned about the relaxation of employment visas for Chinese workers.

Another provision raising concerns will lift the threshold for government review of inbound
nonagricultural investments by Chinese private companies from A$248 million to A$1.08 billion; this
will give Chinese companies more leeway to make deals without seeking official Australian
endorsement.

Still, polls show that Australian voters perceive trade agreements as a good thing. The South Korean
and Japanese deals sailed through parliament in October and November respectively with little fuss.
Commentators expect that, after scrutiny by parliamentary committees, the China deal will also gain
bipartisan support.
Chinese media reports have celebrated Chafta in part as an obstacle to the finalization of the
Trans-Pacific Partnership, a wide trade agreement being negotiated by the U.S., Australia, Japan and
nine other nations without China.

"Xi [Jinping] and his colleagues believe that wider economic opportunities and kind words will seduce
Australia away from its alignment with China's strategic rivals, and encourage us to be more willing to
accommodate China's ambitions for regional leadership," Hugh White, professor of defense studies at
Australian National University in Canberra, wrote in an essay for the Lowy Institute, a Sydney-based
think tank.

But even as he announced the completion of Chafta, Robb said Australia remained strongly committed
to the TPP, which he said was close to being finalized. Australia also remains in negotiation on at least
three other pan-regional deals: a three-way pact with New Zealand and the Association of Southeast
Asian Nations, the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership and the Free Trade Agreement of
the Asia Pacific.
So far, Australia is successfully playing both sides of the fence: strengthening economic ties with China
while simultaneously beefing up its defense relationships with the U.S. and Japan. Whether it can keep
this balance in the long run remains unclear.

Page166of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Zach Coleman, deputy editor of Nikkei Asian Review in Hong Kong, contributed to this article.

NS
RE

IPC
PUB
AN

e512 : Physical Trade | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News
china : China | austr : Australia | jap : Japan | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
EG006000
Nikkei Digital Media Inc.
Document NKRP000020141201eac100033

Page167of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.