Moore’s warning for Murray

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Moore’s warning for Murray

MICHAEL BENNET, REGULATION
881 words
14 October 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
23
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

EXCLUSIVE MACQUARIE Group chief executive Nicholas Moore has urged the Murray inquiry and
regulators to closely consider the cost of new regulation and warned that the trade-off could lead to
lost opportunities for the nation and poorer services to customers.

Ahead of the inquiry’s final report and the G20 next month, Mr Moore broke his silence on the
regulatory storm engulfing the banking sector by saying it was crucial to “really go out of our way” to
determine the cost of new rules and whether “untested” measures being mulled globally were
appropriate.

In one of his first interviews outside the group’s results, Mr Moore also called on government and the
private sector to take greater advantage of the best debt funding conditions in recent history to invest in
growth-enhancing infrastructure.

The comments ramp up a push from business for infrastructure investment to spur the sluggish
economy and long-term growth, with then-NAB chief Cameron Clyne last year lashing the “immature’’
debate on debt and the government’s “lazy” balance sheet.
“As the economy in Australia transitions away from mining investment, we are at the same time in a
low-cost-of-capital environment, which presents a good window for infrastructure opportunities,” said
Mr Moore, who is part of the B20 business group driving policy for the G20 in Brisbane.
The comments came as Treasurer Joe Hockey sought firm support from business for a new global
infrastructure centre to drive down the cost of building major projects.

Macquarie also last week joined the Global Infrastructure Facility, a body pushing greater collaboration
between the public and private sectors to help infrastructure projects attract long-term capital.

With a recent spike in volatility and concerns that growth is flatlining, Mr Moore said a positive for the
economy was the Reserve Bank’s handling of the transition away from mining investment-led growth
to industries such as construction.

While the RBA has come under criticism from some economists for its interest rate movements after
the crisis, Mr Moore backed the central bank to handle the end of the biggest terms of trade boom in
the country’s history.

“I think they have been ahead of the curve in terms of the way they’ve thought about the economy
through this period and the way they’re thinking about it coming out,” he said.
“Clearly we had a very strong mining focus and now it’s more on to the city-building ... it looks OK.
(The RBA) is very conscious of the change taking place.” Mr Moore, who increased Macquarie’s
offshore earnings since becoming CEO in 2008, added that the resurging US economy was also the
reason for optimism and opportunities remained in Asia despite a slightly slower China.

Page4of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.But echoing the CEOs of the big four retail banks, Mr Moore pushed against another wave of major
regulation from the Murray inquiry and G20, arguing it inevitably came with a cost.
According to UBS analysis, consumers could be slugged an extra $3 billion a year if the David
Murray-led inquiry hit the big four retail banks with sharply higher common-equity tier-one and
mortgage capital requirements.
Macquarie’s compliance bill tripled in three years to about $320 million last year, excluding indirect
costs.

“That number is increasing. That’s a cost to us and we can identify there’s a bigger cost out there in
terms of the greater financial sector,” Mr Moore said.

“The harder cost to calculate is what’s the impact of that in terms of opportunities that aren’t being
addressed or people who aren’t being serviced or all those sorts of very difficult issues.

“Regulation has its benefits. It has its costs and it’s for every country around the world, every
jurisdiction, to actually work out the balance between the cost versus the benefits.” While backing work
on the trade-off by the Productivity Commission, Mr Moore said there remained confusion around
mooted rules to “ringfence” safe retail operations from riskier investment banking arms and “bail-ins”
of debt holders when lenders collapsed.

ANZ boss Mike Smith also warned against “jumping the gun” and “one-size-fits-all” rules to better
protect taxpayers against “too big to fail” banks, a major issue for the G20 and Murray inquiry.

Mr Moore said: “There is a trade-off and, particularly with a lot of the regulation, people are talking
about how it is untried, untested and the fact everybody in the world is doing it is not necessarily the
standard one should use.

“All these expressions, you just don’t know what they mean.

“What do you mean by ringfencing?

“There are different interpretations, jurisdiction by jurisdiction.” The inquiry is the first in 17 years and
will report to government next month. In its submission to the inquiry, Macquarie argued that Australia
did not need ringfencing because banks were not as complex as in other markets, there would be
“material” costs and clients might suffer when they wanted services “across the divide”.Macquarie is
also exposed to any changes to rules governing the risk weighting of mortgages and the trend of rising
total capital levels for banks globally.

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

mcqbnk : Macquarie Group Limited
i814 : Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | i83101 : Investment Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit |
ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141013eaae0000s

Page5of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.