Cofco takes a bite out of China 's food insecurity

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Cofco takes a bite out of China's food insecurity

935 words
3 June 2014
Industry Updates
BDU
English
Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Company. All Rights Reserved.

After spending the past decade and more than $200 billion acquiring mines and oilfields from Australia
to Argentina, China's attention is turning to food.

The world's most populous nation is confronting a harsh reality: For every additional bushel of wheat or
pound of beef the world produces, China will need almost half of that to keep its citizens fed.

In acknowledgment that it can't produce enough grain and meat domestically, mainland Chinese and
Hong Kong-listed firms spent $12.3 billion abroad on takeovers and investments in food, drink or
agriculture last year, the most in at least a decade, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Those purchases included the largest Chinese takeover of a US company when Shuanghui
International Holdings Ltd. bought Smithfield Foods Inc for $7 billion including debt. They are likely to
be followed by overseas forays into beef, mutton and grain assets, according to the National Australia
Bank Ltd.
"These deals have been bound to happen, and I'm actually surprised it didn't happen sooner," said
Paul Conway, vice-chairman of Cargill Inc, one of the four companies that now dominate world food
trade. "China will be more integrated into the global commodities system on the agriculture side than
they have ever been."

During the country's explosive economic growth in recent decades, it's been a pattern of the
government to use State-owned enterprises as national champions to lead a charge into strategic
industries.
This is what happened with energy security when PetroChina Co went on a global, decade-long $40
billion-plus spending spree to acquire oil assets.
China's emerging champion in food security is Cofco Corp, which controls 90 percent of China's wheat
imports and has made two acquisitions this year.
It bought controlling stakes in Dutch trader Nidera Holdings BV and Noble Group Ltd's agribusiness in
the space of two months, paying about $2.8 billion in total.

With Noble's agribusiness, Cofco gained grain elevators in Argentina and sugar mills in Brazil, as well
as oilseed-crushing plants in China, Ukraine and South Africa. The Nidera purchase gives Cofco a
strong platform to produce grain in Brazil, Argentina and central Europe, the Chinese firm said in
February.

Cofco's role

Cofco will be "a powerful global agricultural trader and able to procure directly around the world," Fitch
Ratings Ltd said in an April 3 report.
The numbers show why. China has 21 percent of the world's population with just 9 percent of its arable
land, and an even smaller percentage of fresh water, according to Jefferies Group LLC. Rising
incomes are driving demand for more protein-rich food, while domestic output is close to its limits,
Abhijit Attavar, an analyst with Jefferies in Singapore, said in an April 15 report.
In the task of feeding China, Cofco will have plenty of competition.

Page61of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Archer-Daniels-Midland Co, Bunge Ltd and Cargill of the US, as well as France's Louis Dreyfus
Holding BV - known collectively as the A-B-C-Ds - control more than 70 percent of global grain trade,
according to Tokyo-based Continental Rice Corp.

Others sensing big opportunities in food include Japan's Mitsui & Co. The trading house has built a
farming and trading network almost from scratch since 2007 and can tap assets on five continents.

Japan's trading houses have ventured into assets as diverse as Brazil soybean plantations to Thai
shrimp farms and US corn silos. The world's biggest oil trader Vitol Group last year expanded into
grains trading by setting up a Singapore desk.

"We're seeing that driven by SOEs, private enterprises and trading companies from other countries are
looking to create supply chains that go from Australia into China and, indeed, from the Americas," said
Patrick Vizzone, regional head of food and agribusiness at National Australia Bank.
Vizzone, who also sits on the board of Cofco unit China Agri-Industries Holdings Ltd, said he sees the
potential for Chinese ventures and acquisitions in the grain, oilseed, mutton and beef industries.

There also may be bigger options.

Preparing for the future
Margarita Louis-Dreyfus, chairman of her namesake company, has said the commodities unit will be
reorganized to prepare itself for a possible stake sale or an initial public offering. That won't happen in
the immediate future, but the company wants to be ready, she said in April.
Cofco had no comment on acquisitions, a woman in the company's media relations office, who asked
not to be identified citing company policy, said by phone. Yin Jianhao, Cofco's official spokesman,
didn't answer numerous calls to his mobile phone.

"Food security must include imports, and without that, the global food system doesn't work," said Franz
Fischler, former EU commissioner of agriculture. "The idea of self-sufficiency is almost an archaic fear,
and China is realizing this."

Cofco was formed through a series of mergers of State food and animal husbandry companies in the
1950s and is now China's biggest food company with 60,000 employees. Chairman Ning Gaoning
holds an MBA from the University of Pittsburgh and also serves as Cofco's Communist Party
Secretary.
Today, the company operates China's biggest grain storage facilities and owns ports that can process
100 million tons of grain a year.
Outside food, Cofco runs commercial and residential property units, tourist resorts and financial
services that include a commodity futures brokerage, a regional bank and an insurance venture with
London-based Aviva Plc. It has seven listed units.

lhihsc : WH Group Limited | ncbnk : National Australia Bank Ltd | smfods : Smithfield Foods Inc
i83103 : Commodity Contracts Dealing | i0 : Agriculture | i831 : Financial Investments | ifinal : Financial
Services | iinv : Investing/Securities | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i412 : Animal
Slaughtering/Processing | i4122 : Meat Processing | i4123 : Poultry Processing | i814 : Banking |
i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | icnp : Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products
mgroil : Grains/Edible Oils Markets | m14 : Commodity Markets | m141 : Agricultural Commodity
Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce
: FC&E Exclusion Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
agr/lgh
China Daily Information Company
Document BDU0000020140603ea630000v

CO
IN

NS

RE

IPC
PUB
AN

Page62of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.