Foreign buyers add 10pc to home prices

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

TheNation
Foreign buyers add 10pc to home prices

Rick Wallace
530 words
23 June 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
6
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

UNLAWFUL foreign buying of established houses is rife in Melbourne, as well as other capitals, and is
adding a 10 per cent premium to prices that is crushing the hopes of local buyers, leading buyers’
agents have revealed.

They also say authorities don’t understand the impact foreign buying is having on affordability.

Responding to reports in The Australian that foreign buyers were sidestepping Foreign Investment
Review Board regulations and purchasing fixed homes in Australia, veteran Melbourne buyer’s agent
David McRae said Chinese and Malaysian investors often beat his clients at auction.

“We regularly get knocked off by certain sections from overseas and money is not an object to them,’’
Mr McRae said. “We don’t expect to win when I come up against people from Malaysia or China.” The
tacit acceptance of foreigners sidestepping the law to buy existing residential real estate in Australia
has become an open secret in the property sector, as vendors and their agents look to lock in capital
gains and therefore are not anxious to blow the whistle.

The main loophole in the regulations is the clause allowing temporary residents, such as foreign
students, to purchase established property to live in for the duration of their stay. Evidence suggests
these temporary residents are acting as proxies for their parents or other relatives in mainland China
and elsewhere.
The FIRB and the property industry claim criticism of foreign buyers is misdirected at ethnic Chinese
who are actually Australian citizens.

Mr McRae said it was easy to tell when buyers were unlawful foreign investors purchasing in their
sons’ and daughters’ names because you could see them talking to their parents on the phone
throughout the auction.

Another giveaway was when agents were writing down the bids to keep non-English speakers
appraised of the progress at auctions. The property sector and regulators have been trying to
convince a parliamentary inquiry into the issue, which is holding a hearing in Melbourne on Friday, that
it is not a serious problem.

But Mr McRae said authorities — including the Reserve Bank — were wrong to assume that foreign
buyers were not pricing locals out.

“Let me tell the Reserve Bank: it is a problem and it’s going to become a much bigger problem if they
don’t do anything about it because the local population is being priced out,’’ he said.

“These guys really don’t understand the impact that it is having.” He also took aim at claims from the
industry that foreign buyers were solely focused on high-end homes, saying a wave of foreign
investment in Melbourne’s east had added a 10 per cent premium to prices and the knock-on effect
would be felt in surrounding areas.

Page118of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Another long-time agent, David Morrell, said the FIRB’s enforcement regime was akin to “being
slapped with a wet lettuce”.“The rules are so lax — it’s wrong,’’ he said. “I think the FIRB have a fair
job ahead of them.’’ The FIRB, which has not prosecuted anyone for breaching foreign property
investment laws since 2010, has declined to comment.

NS

RE

PUB
AN

e1121 : Home Sales/Housing Affordability | emhpr : Housing Prices | e11 : Economic
Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | ereal : Real Estate Markets
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140622ea6n00064

Page119of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.