G20: Community Information Forum Part 1: Presentations, Brisbane, 2 May 2014

HD
CR
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

G20: Community Information Forum Part 1: Presentations, Brisbane, 2 May 2014

Distributed by Contify.com
7,285 words
1 May 2014
India Public Sector News
ATPUBS
English
Copyright © 2014. Contify.com

May 1 -- Bernadette Welch, Head of Operations G20 Taskforce, Department of the Prime Minister and
Cabinet.

It's great to see so many people here today, I hope that you get an opportunity to have your questions
answered or at least find out how you can get your questions answered. Before we start I'd like to
acknowledge the traditional owners of the land on which we meet today, and pay my respect to their
elders past and present. Now the G20 Taskforce is pretty excited about being able to run the most
significant meeting of our G20 host year here in Brisbane and work with our colleagues from the State
Government and the local council. We really want to show off this city to the world, and we also want to
deliver an event that is safe, secure and dignified for the attendees, but also for the local community.

First for a little bit of housekeeping, you'll notice that there are a few cameras in the room today. Our
G20 Host Broadcaster is creating a video of today's community forum, and that's for people who
couldn't come today, they can actually watch the video of proceedings from our website. We have also
invited the media to attend today's forum. We had a media conference before we started, but some of
the media have decided that they would like to stay and listen to the forum, and it's very normal when
you have things like this, to allow the media in. And to allow them to be included and report on the
forum.

Now we want this session to be comfortable for all of you, and as Virginia said if you don't feel
comfortable asking questions you can fill out a form and hand your question to one of the staff members
on the way out. There will be contact details that will be put up at the end of the presentation, and you
can contact the G20 Taskforce or other agencies that are represented here to get your questions
answered.

So today is one of a number of conversations that we want to have with the Brisbane community, it's
actually our second series of community information forums that we have run on the G20, and we
intend to continue to run these up until the time that the G20 forum is over in November. And we want
to hear from you, so there will be a number of presentations today, we will give you information that we
think might be of interest to you, but we see this as a two-way conversation, we want to hear from you
about what you're interested in, and that will help us to plan for our future forums.

There are some questions that you might have that we won't have answers to yet, of course we're still
over six months out from the leader's forum, and for some things we're not at the level of detail in our
planning to answer every single question that local people might have. But what we can tell you is
around about when we think some information will be available, and we can give you the channels that
you can go to find the information you want. There are also some things that we won't be talking about
in relation to security. And that's because we don't want to compromise security. There are some
matters around security that we will talk about. You know, where there is an impact on the community,
and there might be barriers put up at certain stages and that kind of thing, we'll talk about that with you
so you know how you're going to be impacted. We might not know exactly the detail today, but we'll tell
you at some stage. But other matters around security we will never talk about, because we have a
responsibility to maintain that secure environment for our visiting dignitaries.

Before I go any further I'd like to introduce my fellow speakers. To my right, your left on this side is Terry
Crane. Terry is the Executive Director of the G20 State Coordination Unit in the Department of the

Page220of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Premier and Cabinet, next to Terry is Peter Rule, who is the Executive Manager and G20 Coordinator
with the Brisbane City Council. Next to Peter is Assistant Commissioner Katarina Carroll who runs the
G20 Group in the Queensland Police Service. And you will be hearing from all of them today.

So, firstly I'd like to talk to you about Australia's G20 host year. Sometimes, you might think that the G20
is just a Leaders Summit, but you would be wrong. The G20 is a whole year of meetings that involve
officials, and Ministers, doing the work leading up to the Leaders Summit, and preparing for the kind of
decisions that leaders are going to want to be making at the end of the year. We have already hosted
eight meetings in Australia in our G20 host year in the last five and a half months and have welcomed
about 1,300 delegates and media to Australia.

And, local areas are already benefiting from the exposure that their cities and their towns are getting
worldwide, to having a G20 meeting. And you can see that exposure on the photographs that are on the
screen behind me, the one on the right hand side that was Finance Ministers and Central Bank
Governors who met in Sydney, and they've got that beautiful photo taken outside with the Opera House
and the Harbour Bridge in the background. And the photo next to that, Uluru, that was senior officials
who are called Sherpas, who met in Uluru recently and had that beautiful photo taken. Now these
photos are up on our website, and they've been tweeted all over the world.

So while hosting the G20 gives Australia a very valuable opportunity to influence the global economic
agenda and strengthen our international engagement, it also gives us a great opportunity to showcase
this beautiful country. And Brisbane should feel really proud that you have been chosen to be the G20
host city for the Leaders Summit. Now what I'd like to do is provide you a little bit of an overview of the
G20.

The G20 is the world's premier forum for international economic cooperation and decision-making. It
started in 1999 following the Asian financial crisis. But at that time it was in the form of a meeting of
Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors meeting. Australia actually hosted the G20 when it was
in that form in 2006.

In 2008, the first Leaders Summit was convened, and that was to address the global financial crisis.
Leaders at the time realised that they needed a leader-level forum, where they could have an
appropriate representation from developed and developing countries. So that there could be some
balance in the decision-making and influence from across the developing countries as well as
developed countries. And that it why the G20 was then elevated to a leaders forum. The G20 focuses
on issues that only leaders can address. So, it focuses on the really big-ticket issues of the day that
leaders need to address.

During Australia's host year, we have a particular focus on trade and employment and of course these
are issues that are relevant to all Australians. We are trying to look at practical actions that make it
easier to trade across borders, and develop policies, for example that encourage more women and
young people to enter or get back into the workforce as well as people who are long-term unemployed.

The membership of the G20 comprises 19 countries plus the European Union, and there are a number
of guest counties that attend every year. The G20 also works very closely with a number of international
organisations, including the IMF, the World Bank and the OECD.
In the lead up to the Leaders Summit there are dozens of meetings. So Australia is hosting dozens of
G20 meetings across the country, and some of them are being held overseas on the margins of other
international meetings. This year also, we are going to have Trade Ministers and Employment Ministers
meetings. So Ministerial level meetings will include the normal Finance Ministers and Central Bank
Governors meetings that happen in every G20 host year, and because we have trade and employment
on the agenda, our Trade Minister will host a meeting, and our Employment Minister will host a meeting
in Australia.

As the Prime Minister is the Chair of the G20, the G20 Taskforce that I represent today is located in the
Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. The G20 Taskforce is responsible for coordinating
across the Commonwealth, Australia's policy development for our host year, and is also responsible for
coordinating across the Commonwealth, and across the state and local government level, all of the
security arrangements, we are not responsible for delivering all of the security arrangements, but we
are responsible for coordinating them. And we are responsible for delivering the logistics.

The Taskforce has a pretty big job, and we are working very closely with the Prime Minster as the chair
of the G20 for this year. I am not going to go into the roles of my colleagues at this point in time, but as
they come up to speak they will talk to you about what their role is in relation to the G20 host year.

Now hosting the G20 is a big thing for Brisbane as I've said before, of course it's not like an Expo or a
Commonwealth Games where people buy tickets and come and watch, but it is something that

Page221of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Brisbane people can get involved in. When leaders come to town, we are anticipating (we don't know
for sure because our accreditation hasn't opened yet) but based on past history, we are anticipating
around 4000 delegates and around 3000 members of the media. That is a massive media contingent. I
know that cities in Australia host big conferences and big forums and conventions, and
intergovernmental meetings that may get more delegates. But rarely do you get 3000 members of the
domestic and international media coming to the one place at one time.

And that means that Brisbane and Queensland will be the world spotlight for the period that the Leaders
Summit is on. And I don't think that we should dismiss how incredibly important that is going to be for
Brisbane, and we are thinking very hard and working very closely with our State Government and local
council counterparts to find ways that we can really leverage off of that opportunity.

You know, a large part of what we are thinking of providing in our International Media Centre will be
focused around showcasing. We are also looking at creating a Smartphone application, which will be
made available to visiting media and visiting delegates. And, they will be able to find on that
smartphone application information about Australia, Queensland and Brisbane. They will be able to use
it as a navigational tool around Brisbane, and within the convention centre. But we are also going to link
it to sites that are already established to promote local business, so that is one small way that we can
help showcase local business in Brisbane to those delegates and media who come.

There are of course going to be some impacts, you are all aware of that. But one of the things that we
have be very conscious of is that while we are undertaking the planning around delivering a successful
Leaders Summit, we are also thinking about how we can do this in such a way that has minimal impact
on the local community. It is one of the key planning principles that all levels of government are working
together and focusing on. We will provide you with information progressively throughout the host year,
as it becomes available to us, and as we are able.

When it comes to transport, there will be some impacts but they will primarily be between Friday the
14th and Sunday the 16th of November. So we are compressing them to as tight as period of time as
possible. Katarina is going to talk a little bit more about transport, and impacts when she gets up and
speaks to you. Now the G20 Taskforce isn't anticipating any major flight disruptions like cancellations or
significant delays, in the period around the summit. But there will be some disruptions to the road
network, because as you're aware there will be motorcades coming from the airport, so people should
think about, if they have to travel around that time, to give themselves a little bit of extra time to get to
the airport.

In relation to airspace, the Australian Government will be imposing some air control measures, and that
is quite normal for these kinds of high-profile events. The G20 Taskforce and the aviation industry will
work together to advise the aviation community about the air control measures and what their
responsibilities will be. So they will be visiting airfields and explaining the restrictions that will be put in
place, and then information will be progressively released through the website.

In terms of access, there is no intention for us or the State Government or the local government to be
advising businesses to close over the period of the Leaders Summit or the public holiday. There will be
some local access only restricted areas, and as I said before, some of those details we just don't have
available yet, we haven't got down to that level of detail planning. But we will be making that information
available well in advance so that people can actually plan their travel and plan their routes when they
need to travel around that weekend.

Now we are really interested in bringing the local community into being involved in the summit where
possible. So I did say before, that it's not like a ticketed event where the public goes and witnesses a
sporting event or something like that. But something like the G20 Summit really requires a significant
level of support, and one of the things that we're really keen, is that delegates and leaders and media
when they come here, see the open and friendly and welcoming face of Brisbane. It is something that I
see every time I come here for work, and luckily for me I get to come here really regularly, I love coming
to Brisbane, I love my job. So one way that we are doing this, is (and consistent with other large
international events) we have launched a volunteering program, the Prime Minister was here in
Brisbane on Sunday, and with the Premier launched the volunteer program for us to recruit up to 700
volunteers to support us in delivering the G20.

As of this morning we had over 700 applications, but I just want to let you know it's not first-in first
served, we want to get the best people. And we are looking for people who are open and welcoming
and friendly and engaging, and professional. We are not looking for particular technical skills. So if you
want to welcome delegates, I would really strongly encourage you to apply for the volunteer program.
You'll get some training, you'll get a uniform, and you'll get experience working on the G20. And these
kinds of experiences come around so rarely, I would really encourage you to take up this opportunity.
We are looking for people to work in roles like on hotel information desks, load zone areas, to provide

Page222of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.transport information, to assist in the media centre, to assist with accreditation, and also to assist in
supporting the pool of volunteers that we are going to have on the ground. You have got to be over 18
years of age as at the 15th July to apply to become a volunteer, and you need to be an Australian
citizen or permanent resident.

You'll need to be able to commit to around six shifts around November 10th and 17th. If you are
interested in finding out more about the volunteer program, there is information on the G20 website
which will take you through to Volunteering Queensland who are running the program on our behalf, but
also if you have questions that you'd like to ask today, we have people at the back of the reception area
just outside of here, behind two banners, that show volunteers on them, and you can go to that desk at
any time and ask them questions and they will give you all of the information that you need.

There are other opportunities for locals to become involved in other capacities, and these are being
done through some of the contracting and engagement that we are doing for other jobs in the G20. So
we have signed a major contract with Wilsons Security, who is providing all of our in-venue security
services throughout the whole host year. And of course they are going to need a lot of people to work
here in Brisbane. They have their own process to recruit and train their staff, but there will be quite a
number of local people employed to provide security around the summit, and also we have asked the
Queensland Government and other Australian Government agencies to give their staff an opportunity to
put their hand up to be seconded to supplement our COMCAR drivers so that they can help us by
driving delegates around. That's all from me for me, for now, there will be plenty of opportunity for you
to ask questions at the end, but right now I'd like to hand over to my colleague Terry Crane.

Terry Crane, Executive Director, G20 State Coordination Unit, Department of Premier and Cabinet

Thanks very much Bernadette.

Welcome ladies and gentleman, and I guess before I talk to you a little bit about the state's involvement,
just a warning that I volunteered for this job I came out of retirement to do it which would immediately
lead to the question of my judgment. But, it's all going ok.

My view is that Queenslanders should be very proud that we have been selected above all other cities
in Australia to host the G20 Leaders Summit. Now it's not quite the same as the State Of Origin win,
however we did knock off the same opposition. So, after the State of Origin this year it will be 9 zip plus
G20 and we're looking forward to that.

Following the announcement of Brisbane as the host city for the Leaders Summit, the State
Government formed a very small and very busy G20 State Coordination Unit and essentially our role is
to coordinate the provision of Queensland government services in support of the Australian government
hosting of the event. So it is an Australian government event hosted by the Prime Minister, however, the
State Government has a large role to play. Now this is particularly in relation to public safety and
security, read QPS, emergency services, health and transport planning. We also have a role in making
sure that we maximise the benefits and opportunities for the whole of Queensland from hosting this
event.

Because we are bureaucrats we like to have objectives but we thought we would only have two, so I
think it's a great number. But seriously, there are two key objectives for the State Government. One is
very obvious, the safe and secure and successful hosting of the Leaders Summit here in Brisbane but
also the Finance Ministers Central Bank Governors Meeting which will be hosted in Cairns in
September this year as a prelude to the Leaders Summit, which will also be a very important event for
Cairns. Our other objective is to maximise the economic and cultural opportunities and the long term
business and tourism benefits for Queensland. We, and that's we the State Government, need to make
every post a winner in terms of hosting this event.

There will be some pain from hosting this event and there will be some disruption but my personal view
is that the long term benefits to Brisbane of hosting the Leaders Summit will far outweigh the short term
pain we might experience in and around the CBD and Southbank. Now clearly if we fail on objective
one, objective two cannot be achieved. We want the lasting images of the G20 in Brisbane to be
spectacular. We all know that some other event could have some protest activity and the Assistant
Commissioner will talk about that in a bit of detail shortly. But we want the lasting images beamed
around the world of Brisbane to be very positive

Now in terms of hosting a safe, secure and successful event, there are a few things you need to know
and one is that the Leaders Summit will be one of the most significant events in Queensland's history,
and being invited to stage the leaders meeting here in Brisbane is indeed the biggest vote of confidence
that the Australian government could have had in our city and our ability to deliver a major world event.
This is a once in a generation opportunity, I know we all want to think that we will live for a long time,

Page223of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.but I'm pretty confident that none of us in this room will ever see a G20 in Brisbane again, so we need
to make the most of it. There have only been eight cities that have hosted a G20 Leaders Summit and
now Brisbane will be on that list of leading world cities that were not only capable of delivering the
Leaders Summit but were capable of delivering an extraordinary event.

Now the local and International community can trust in the expertise of the Queensland Police Service.
We are in safe hands. I have been involved in a number of these events in Australia (not a G20) but a
CHOGM and APEC, and I can say very honestly that the QPS is the best placed I have ever seen to
deliver a successful security operation to ensure the safety of not only the leaders but the residents of
Brisbane.

The Australian Government, the QPS, Brisbane City Council and the Department of Transport and Main
Roads are working together to minimise disruptions to residents in and around particularly the CBD and
the Southbank area. But look, I'd be less than honest if I didn't say to you there will be some disruption,
particularly in those areas. However, Brisbane is open for business. So visitors, residents, businesses
and Queenslander's in general can continue to lead their daily lives while the G20 is being hosted here
is Brisbane. And to assist in minimising the impact of the meeting an additional public holiday has been
declared on the Friday the 14th of November. Now, this is like the EKKA holiday so its Brisbane local
government area only and it relates to where you work, not where you live but we think that will
substantially reduce the impact on the residents of Brisbane.

The economic benefits: we're going to showcase our state and the two cities that are hosting the G20
events as world class business and tourism destinations. Our key message to visitors is that
Queensland has a strong economy and it's a great place to visit, study, do business and invest - bring
your money, it's a great place. Again, because we are bureaucrats we've got a strategy, and our
economic benefits leveraging strategy will include trade/investment partnerships, marketing and
communication activities. And we will be focusing on the four pillars of the Queensland economy:
agriculture, resources, construction and tourism.

A few things worth knowing, eight out of ten of Australia's top trading partners will be in Brisbane for the
Leaders Summit. The leaders of the world will be effectively running their own countries from Brisbane
during that weekend. So every major newspaper in all of the G20 countries will be carrying stories
about their leaders presence here in Brisbane, Queensland, for this major world event.

It presents an unprecedented opportunity for us to attract more investment, but we seriously could not
buy the coverage that we are going to get from hosting this event. I know I repeat myself but this is just
a fabulous opportunity, I am very excited about it and I think it is going to be fantastic.

A couple of the initiatives that we are running through the State Government is a Trade and Investment
Summit in the lead up to the event, which will be hosted by Trade and Investment Queensland. We are
going to be rolling out an international media campaign so we will be rolling out positive stories about
Brisbane, about doing business in Queensland, about the trade and investment opportunities and we
will be rolling that out into all our key marketing overseas focusing particularly on the Asian market and
that will be a great campaign.

We're also running a G20 curriculum in the next term so in both primary and secondary schools there
will be an element optional in curriculum for kids from prep through to secondary school to learn a little
bit more about the G20 and I think that's a great initiative and we're going to make that available to
schools throughout Australia if they choose to use it.

There will also be a significant cultural celebration and you may have seen some coverage about this
recently. We'll be celebrating our selection in the lead up to the event and we're going to have a
calendar of those activities that'll engage the community and hopefully engender some pride in hosting
this global event. So what's that going to look like - the planning is underway, its being run a discrete
unit in DPC, in Premier and Cabinet, not in my unit. Some people who were being a bit uncharitable
said that's because I'd be the last person you'd want running a cultural program and it's probably right.
So we set up a discrete unit with a couple of artistic directors who will be well known to the people of
Brisbane for their work on other events to design, implement and deliver this cultural program.

So I'll be showcasing Queensland, not only to the world's media, but the CEOs who will be coming to
the business 20 which precedes the G20 but also the people of the state. We recognize that there is a
little bit pain involved in delivering this event for the residents of Brisbane so we want to give something
back to people. We want people to have a lasting memory of the G20 in Brisbane which is positive. The
program will include some signature events, some music programs in local parks and pubs which I'm
particularly attracted to. Some dance events and street performances which is probably not my bag.
There will also be art, film and a lighting of the city in a number of extraordinary ways and some of you
will be familiar in what's been done before - stand by its going to be magnificent.

Page224of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.There celebrations will reflect Brisbane's role as the world's host of the G20 and ensure that Brisbane
puts on a show, worthy of the honour of having the leaders of the world here.

Thank you and can I just say that I ask you to support this event. I know that there has been a lot of
coverage which is not necessarily been positive about it - that's disappointing from my perspective this
is a very positive thing for Brisbane. So thank you again and just in support of what Bernadette said
about volunteers, make sure you go to the booth, put in application and hopefully you'll get yourself a
role working with the G20 team.

Thanks you and I'd now like to introduce Peter Rule who is the Executive Manager and G20
Coordinator with the Brisbane City Council.

Peter Rule, Executive Manager, G20 Coordination Unit, Brisbane City Council

Thank Terry and good afternoon ladies and gentleman. It's my pleasure to be here to speak about
Council's part in the G20 Leaders Summit. As others have said to host the G20 Leaders Summit in
2014 is a great honour for Brisbane and we intend to maximise the opportunity it presents itself to the
city as a council. Brisbane will become the capital city of world for those few days when the leaders
arrive here with their delegations as the leaders meet and do their international business, their
delegations will be working back to their home countries of course, providing guidance and instructions
from their leaders here. In every sense we will be the capital city of world for that time.

We're very very proud therefore to be showcasing Brisbane while the eyes of the world are on our city
as present ourselves as an emerging new world city. The impact of hosting a successful G20 Summit in
Brisbane such will create a long lasting legacy for our city and I will say more about that in moment.

Council's role - council is a supporting partner to the G20 Taskforce and the Queensland Police service
and others stakeholders bodies are involved in this significant event. Our focus we in Brisbane City
Council and focusing on balancing the needs of the city businesses and city's residents with the safety
and security requirements for the very obvious for this major event. Our priority is keeping Brisbane
open for business in the lead up to, during and after the event and the only proviso is there may be
some security overrides that cause that not to happen. Overall Brisbane is open for business in this
period.

Above all, we want Brisbane to present itself as clean, green, friendly and welcoming city. We've done it
before on our very many other significant events such as Expo and the Commonwealth Games and I'm
sure we, in partnership with the residents and businesses, can do that again. Now there will be
economic opportunities directly to the city. Terry's has talked about some significant state ones. The
summit is expected to generate direct benefits to the city businesses from hotel bookings and visitor
expenditure of in the order of $20 million in this short period. And there will be indirect benefits to the
city in the order of $100 million dollars which will come from the nominal value of the media exposure
which if we had to purchase the type of exposure we'll get from the 3000 media it would be in the order
of that value based upon the summits that have been run around the world.

We also anticipate that there will be medium term tourism benefits from the higher international
recognition of Brisbane as world class destination and we would expect to see just like we did with Expo
and Commonwealth Games people flowing back to the city to visit us and visit other destinations in
QLD. We believe with the international business program being put together with the B20, with the work
of the Q20 through the QLD State Government and the showcasing of QLD and Brisbane that we will
attract significant international business to the city. There will be opportunities for our business to
engage them - as Terry mentioned our trading partners that are coming to the event.

I said we're trying to maximise and capitalize on our opportunity through our organization called
Brisbane Marketing which is our promotional and marketing organisation. Brisbane Marketing has
implemented a 'Choose Brisbane' program which has been going for some time. It's a program that
positions Brisbane globally as a destination of choice for business investment, international students
and conventions. The first phase of this program commenced in March 2013 and has been going for
over a year. It started in Hong Kong and was subsequently rolled out in London, Spain, France and
also mainland China. A second phase commenced in September last year and it's now on 3000
billboards across the world. It's estimated that that campaign already has reached 165 million people
across the world, particularly in Asia and Europe. The campaign features a number of heroes including
President Obama and other world leaders and has on it the words 'Brisbane - the G20 2014 host city'.

Now Brisbane Marketing have also implemented a series of other initiatives, the signature program is
'Choose Brisbane' and there is a Brisbane opportunities program as well which features five more
initiatives. Those initiatives are presented on the slide - in particular those initiatives include a social
media campaign, a Brisbane global cafe event series, a city pride campaign and initiatives to help

Page225of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.visitors find their way around the city. Now more details about these particular initiatives will be
announced later in the coming months.

Some other initiatives that council has announced are firstly are free Wi-Fi program. There is already
free Wi-Fi in the city as many of you will know. There's three of the city's busiest hubs have been
extended now - the Queen Street Mall, the Victoria Bridge and the Southbank parklands included in
councils free Wi-Fi network. The Lord Mayor has announced that he wants to see a free Wi-Fi as one of
the city's legacies from G20.

Well the other initiatives is a revitalisation of Queen Street Mall and if you had walked down to the forum
through the Queen Street Mall, you would notice that construction has started as a result of construction
work and changes, increases in pedestrian space and revitalisation of the mall, opening the mall up so
there is more visibility and a change of restaurant profile with Jimmy's on the Mall and the East cafe.
And in the future, the Visitor Information Centre will move into the Regent Theatre complex.

The final initiative that has been announced is one that has been going for some time and that is
incentives for the construction major four and five star hotels and you will note that the Four Points by
Sheraton opened earlier this year and that is one of the hotels that has already benefitted from that
particular initiative of the city.

Look I'd like to finish now on what do we think the legacy for Brisbane will be for this very significant
event. Well there will be this long lasting reputational legacy. People will recognize the name Brisbane
internationally in a way that it potentially it hasn't been seen before. The presence of the publicity about
our city and what goes on at the Leaders Summit will undoubtedly be on newspapers and televisions
and presentations around the world. It's a significant event in our coming of our age as a city and
chance to show that we are emerging as Australia's new world city. The event will result in significant
destination and brand recognition and if there were to be a document or a protocol or a series of
announcements of this forum that are reiterated again and again in future annual G20 summits just
think about the notion of how much more that will reiterate over the years about Brisbane.

I think our final idea is that there will be a legacy in the minds of the residents and businesses of
Brisbane who will be proud of our city and the role that we played.

Thank you for listening and I will now pass to my colleague Assistant Commissioner Katarina Carroll.

Katarina Carroll, Assistant Commissioner, G20 Group, Queensland Police Service

Thank you Peter and good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.

From the previous speakers you already have a sense of how big and complex this event is. Not one
agency alone or one government level alone can deliver safety, security and dignity required for the
successful delivery of this event.

So it is my intent that the Queensland Police Service will deliver and collaborate with other agencies a
safe, secure and dignified and effective G20 operation to secure the G20 meetings in Queensland. This
will arguably be the largest peace time operation in Australia's history. It is certainly the case in
Queensland's history.

As indicated by Bernadette, Queensland Police Service has State jurisdiction and responsibility for tier
two security. This incorporates the areas directly around the accommodation, meeting venues,
motorcade routes to and from the airport, crowd management, dignitary protection, bomb searching and
other security arrangements.

We will ensure security arrangements are appropriate and adequate to keep both visiting dignitaries
and members of the community during events in Cairns and Brisbane.

In Brisbane there will be over 5,300 police officers on shift each day. Some 1,500 of these will come
from interstate and New Zealand.

Planning has already been taking place for some 18 months and will continue to do so until the delivery
of this event later this year. To ensure that the rest of the state maintains business as usual, the
Queensland Police Service has issued a leave embargo to all sworn members and civilian staff who are
working in the G20 Group or who have been assigned a role in delivery of the G20 response. The
embargo will be in effect from 1 September to 30 November this year.

We are working with our commonwealth agencies, Brisbane City Council and the Department of
Transport and Main Roads to minimise disruption to the residents and businesses in the CBD and the
South Bank precinct.

Page226of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.I want to encourage every one of you to go about your usual business, especially during the 14th, 15th
and 16th of November. However, people may need to go about their business in a different way.

The reality is that there will be impacts to transport due to the required security measures and as
already pointed out by a number of people here today that you can already expect some impacts to
journey times, parking and public transport.

Temporary road closures are required during this time and I would expect that these will be
concentrated around the restricted areas within the CBD and routes to and from the airport. In many
instances when a motorcade is travelling no one else will be allowed on the road. If these arrivals are
through the evening or late at night, very few will be affected. However, if they occur through the day
some people may be affected.

Arrival times are as of yet unknown and these routes won't be made public until closer to the time of the
movements. As already mentioned, people should already expect changes to on street parking
arrangements, taxi ranks and bus stops and greatest disruption to transport arrangements between
Friday the 14th and Sunday the 16th of November.

Roads, bridge access and public transport in and out of the city will be operating for the Thursday
evening peak period. All transport arrangements should return to business as usual in time for the
Monday morning peak period, unless of course exceptional circumstances arise.

There will be some impacts to the road network from the days immediately prior and people will notice
these changes as the city sets up for the Summit. This will mostly be around the BCEC and these
details will be made public closer to the time. Final arrangements may not be known until six weeks
prior to the Summit and information about road closures and public transport changes will be
communicated to the Brisbane community through a public awareness campaign from October 2014.

This will also include information in newspapers, online and on the radio. I would also encourage people
to go to the usual places to find this information such as Translink who provides real-time updates on
public transport.

The QPS G20 Group external engagement team is liaising with residents, community groups,
businesses and critical infrastructure providers to make sure that everyone is up to date with
information that may affect them.

The community engagement information strategy planned by the Queensland Police Service leading up
to the G20 meetings will also provide relevant information to interested groups in relation to lawful
assembly. The team is available to provide information around impacts as they are known and they can
also be contacted through the QPS website.

Information around impacts, public safety information will be distributed through the QPS G20 blog and
QPS social media channels.

Lawful and peaceful protest will be supported by the Queensland Police Service. However, the
Queensland Police Service will take appropriate action should an activity become unlawful or present a
risk to personal safety or damage to infrastructure. We expect protests during this event and people
should be aware that some of these activities may spill onto the roadways resulting in impacts on the
network and traffic flows. If this occurs, the QPS will take action to resolve the situation.
The Queensland Police Service is working with protest groups in the lead up to the summit and will
continue to negotiate with these groups during the event to minimise possible disruptions.

What will it look like at the BCEC - People should expect to see closures to Merivale, Grey, Glenelg and
Melbourne Streets over this three day period and in some instances also in the week leading up to the
Summit.

Changes to the public transport timetabling in the Brisbane CBD and South Bank should also be
expected. The rerouting of services and the early termination of services may cause delays and people
should leave extra time ahead of their journey.

The car park in the Brisbane Convention and Exhibition Centre will be the only car park in the South
Bank precinct that will close in the lead up to and during the G20 Summit. People should plan to use
alternative car parks or take public transport.

To reiterate here, there are some key messages I would like to leave with you. We have never seen an
event of this scale and complexity before in Australia. There will be a significant police presence in
Brisbane during the Summit and be assured that we are planning for every possible contingency.

Page227of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.There will be impacts to our road network and public transport, but I expect that you will see this from
around the 14th, 15th and 16th only. Information about these impacts will be known and distributed
closer to the event and through normal means as I mentioned before such as Translink.

I expect that you will see protest during the event. But we are committed to working with these groups
to ensure the safety and security of everyone involved.

Finally we the Queensland Police Service see this as a great opportunity to Brisbane and to
Queensland. There will be a significant benefit for years to come from a policing perspective. This event
will provide the Queensland Police Service with enhanced skill sets and capacity in the lead up to the
2018 Commonwealth Games.

If you would like further information I would also encourage you to contact my engagement team and
subscribe to the G20 police blog and follow us on social media.

CO
NS

RE

PUB
AN

aupmc : Australia Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet | groptw : Group of 20
greg : Regional Politics | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol :
Domestic Politics
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | queensl :
Queensland
Athena Information Solutions Pvt. Ltd.
Document ATPUBS0020140526ea510002y

Page228of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.