'Vodafail' may just about lead to a Voda sale

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
'Vodafail' may just about lead to a Voda sale

David Ramli
584 words
22 November 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First Drop-in
1
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Telcos
Vodafone Group chief executive Vittorio Colao has told investors the company “would consider”
selling its Australian operations along with other non-core assets and has been checking with
potential buyers.

Vodafone Hutchison Australia is a 50-50 joint-venture between UK based Vodafone Group and
Hong Kong’s Hutchison Whampoa.
But analysts and banking sources have warned the company would struggle to find a buyer for the
business until there are clearer signs Vodafone Australia has recovered.
Mr Colao was speaking at a conference in Barcelona this week when asked if he’d consider the sale
of operations in Australia, Hungary and the Czech Republic.

“We constantly check with possible parties interested in some of our less core assets,” Mr Colao
reportedly said. “We would consider sales but we are not distressed sellers so therefore we must sell
at full

value. Otherwise we keep them and manage the cash."

After the comments emerged, Vodafone Australia said in a statement Mr Colao was referring to the
general principle that Vodafone was open to potential changes to its portfolio and it had no specific
plans to sell.
Any sale would come at a critical time for Vodafone Australia as it attempts to repair its reputation
after a network meltdown dubbed "Vodafail". It has lost more than 2 million users over the past two
years and is continuing to lose customers but the rate of decline has greatly slowed in the last few
months.

The joint-venture nature of Vodafone Australia also means all major decisions must be accepted and
funded by both parties, which in turn makes it less attractive to potential buyers.

Telstra's dominance of the local mobile market and SingTel-Optus' position in second place means it
is hard for a third-placed player to turn a strong profit.

"Ultimately in any deal you have to find a buyer and I think that's the real hurdle here," said one
senior analyst who declined to be named. "You're most likely player would be an overseas mobile
provider but there aren't many out there that are buying.

"Locally there's sense putting mobile and fixed-line services together so TPG Telecom would be the
one that springs to mind."

Page223of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Where Vodafone Australia pays fixed-line providers to send its mobile data for phone and internet
services across the country, a merger with a fixed-line player would help it slash costs and let it sell
fixed-line broadband services for the first time. Sources said it had previously considered buying both
iiNet and TPG Telecom.

TPG would benefit by getting more use out of its networks and gain the ability to bundle a
wide-range of telecommunications services. It would then be able to take on Telstra and
SingTel-Optus and be in a better position to target the corporate market.

TPG is also one of the few Australian telecommunications companies that is big enough to attempt a
merger or acquisition of Vodafone Australia. Telstra and Optus are unlikely to get permission from
competition regulators to make such a move.

Earlier this month UBS said Vodafone Group should sell Vodafone Australia to focus on European
and Asian growth businesses in a move that could earn it $2.68 billion. UBS head of European
media and telecoms Polo Tang told clients Vodafone Australia was "struggling" and a prime
candidate for sale along with several other divisions.

hutwam : Hutchison Whampoa Limited | ratel : Vodafone Group PLC | vhapty : Vodafone Hutchison
Australia Pty Limited | huttel : Hutchison Telecommunications (Australia) Ltd
i7902 : Telecommunication Services | i79022 : Wireless Telecommunications Services | i8396 :
Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
npag : Page-One Stories | ncat : Content Types
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020141122eabm00007

CO

IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

Page224of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.