22009A0130(01); Agreement between the European Community and Australia on trade in wine - Protocol - Joint Declarations OJ L 28, 30.1.2009...

HD 22009A0130(01); Agreement between the European Community and Australia on trade in wine -

Protocol - Joint Declarations OJ L 28, 30.1.2009, p. 3–87

WC 25,172 words
PD 21 February 2014
SN EUR-Lex
SC CELEXE
LA English
CY EUR-Lex © European Communities 2014
LP

Agreement

between the European Community and Australia on trade in wine

TD

THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITY,

hereinafter called "the Community",

of the one part, and

AUSTRALIA,

of the other part,

hereinafter called ‘the Contracting Parties’,

DESIROUS of improving conditions for the favourable and harmonious development of trade and the
promotion of commercial cooperation in the wine sector on the basis of equality, mutual benefit and
reciprocity,

RECOGNISING that the Contracting Parties desire to establish closer links in the wine sector to help
facilitate trade between the Contracting Parties,

HAVE AGREED AS FOLLOWS:

Article 1

Objectives

The Contracting Parties agree, on the basis of non-discrimination and reciprocity, to facilitate and promote
trade in wine originating in the Community and in Australia on the conditions provided for in this
Agreement.

Article 2

Scope and coverage

This Agreement applies to wines falling under heading 22.04 of the Harmonized System of the International
Convention on the Harmonized Commodity, Description and Coding System, done at Brussels on 14 June
1983 [1].

Article 3

Definitions

For the purposes of this Agreement, unless the contrary intention appears:

Page4of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.(a) "wine originating in" shall mean, when used in relation to the name of a Contracting Party, a wine that is
produced within the territory of the Contracting Party solely from grapes which have been wholly harvested
in the territory of that Contracting Party;

(b) "geographical indication" shall mean an indication as defined in Article 22(1) of the TRIPs Agreement;

(c) "traditional expression" shall mean a traditionally used name referring in particular to the method of
production or to the quality, colour or type of a wine, which is recognised in the laws and regulations of the
Community for the purpose of the description and presentation of a wine originating in the territory of the
Community;

(d) "description" shall mean the words used on the labelling, on the documents accompanying the transport
of the wine, on the commercial documents particularly the invoices and delivery notes, and in advertising;

(e) "labelling" shall mean all descriptions and other references, signs, designs, geographical indications or
trade marks which distinguish the wine and which appear on the same container, including its sealing
device or the tag attached to the container and the sheathing covering the neck of bottles;

(f) "presentation" shall mean the words used on the containers, including the closure, on the labelling and
on the packaging;

(g) "packaging" shall mean the protective wrappings, such as papers, straw envelopes of all kinds, cartons
and cases, used in the transport of one or more containers or for sale to the ultimate consumer;
(h) "TRIPs Agreement" means the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights,
attached as Annex 1C to the WTO Agreement;

(i) "WTO Agreement" means the Marrakesh Agreement establishing the World Trade Organization done on
15 April 1994;

(j) subject to Articles 29(3)(e) and 30(3)(c), a reference to a law, legislation or regulation is a reference to
that law, legislation or regulation as amended at the date of signature of the Agreement. If, at the time of
signature, one Contracting Party notifies the other Contracting Party that it needs to adopt laws, legislation
or regulations to implement its obligations under this Agreement, then a reference to such laws, legislation
or regulations shall be a reference to those laws, legislation or regulations as in force on the date such
Contracting Party notifies the other Contracting Party that its requirements for the entry into force of this
Agreement have been complied with.

Article 4

General rules

1. Unless otherwise specified in this Agreement, importation and marketing of wine shall be conducted in
compliance with the laws and regulations applying in the territory of the importing Contracting Party.

2. The Contracting Parties shall take the measures necessary to ensure that the obligations laid down by
this Agreement are fulfilled. They shall ensure that the objectives set out in this Agreement are attained.

TITLE I

OENOLOGICAL PRACTICES AND PROCESSES AND COMPOSITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR WINE

Article 5

Existing oenological practices and processes and compositional requirements for wine

1. The Community shall authorise the importation into and marketing in its territory for direct human
consumption of all wines originating in Australia and produced in accordance with:

(a) one or more of the oenological practices or processes listed in paragraph 1 of Annex I, Part A;

and

(b) the compositional requirements as provided for in point I.1 of the Protocol to the Agreement.

2. Australia shall authorise the importation into and marketing in its territory for direct human consumption
of all wines originating in the Community and produced in accordance with one or more of the oenological
practices or processes listed in paragraph 1 of Annex I, Part B.

Page5of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.3. The Contracting Parties recognise that the oenological practices and processes listed in Annex I and
compositional requirements provided for in the Protocol meet the objectives and requirements set out in
Article 7.

Article 6

New oenological practices, processes, compositional requirements or modifications

1. If one Contracting Party proposes to authorise a new, or modify an existing, oenological practice,
process or a compositional requirement for commercial use in its territory which is not authorised by the
other Contracting Party by virtue of Article 5 and which requires modifications of Annex I pursuant to Article
11, it shall notify the other Contracting Party in writing as soon as possible and provide a reasonable
opportunity for comment prior to the final authorisation of that new or modified oenological practice,
process or compositional requirement.

2. The Contracting Party shall also provide upon request a technical dossier supporting the proposed
authorisation of the new or modified oenological practice, process or compositional requirement, with
regard to the objectives and requirements set out in Article 7, to facilitate the consideration by the other
Contracting Party.

3. The consideration of a proposed new or modified oenological practice or process or compositional
requirement as referred to in paragraph 1 shall be undertaken by the other Contracting Party taking
account of the objectives and requirements set out in Article 7.

4. A Contracting Party shall notify the other Contracting Party within 30 days after the entry into force of the
authorisation of a proposed new or modified oenological practice, process or compositional requirement.

5. The notification referred to in paragraph 4 shall comprise a description of the new or modified
oenological practice, process or compositional requirement.

6. If a technical dossier has not been provided under paragraph 2, the notifying Contracting Party shall, if
requested by the other Contracting Party, provide the technical dossier as specified under that paragraph.

7. This Article does not apply if a Contracting Party adapts an oenological practice or process referred to in
Annex I, Part C solely in order to take into account particular climate conditions of a marketing year,
provided that the adaptation is minor and does not substantially change the oenological practice or process
or compositional requirement concerned (technical adaptation). The Contracting Party proposing to make
the technical adaptation shall notify the other Contracting Party as soon as practicable, but at least prior to
the marketing in the territory of the other Contracting Party.

Article 7

Objectives and requirements

1. New or modified oenological practices, processes or compositional requirements used for the production
of wine shall meet the following objectives:

(a) the protection of human health;

(b) the protection of the consumer against deceptive practices;

(c) meeting the standards of good oenological practice as outlined in paragraph 2.

2. A good oenological practice is one that meets the following requirements:

I. is not prohibited in the laws and regulations of the originating country;

II. protects the authenticity of the product by safeguarding the concept that the typical features of the wine
arise in the grapes harvested;

III. takes into account the region of cultivation, and in particular, climatic, geological and other production
conditions;

IV. is based on a reasonable technological or practical need to, among other things, enhance the keeping
qualities, stability or consumer acceptance of the wine;

V. ensures that the processes or additions are limited to the minimum necessary to achieve the desired
effect.

Page6of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Article 8

Provisional authorisation

Without prejudice to measures foreseen in Article 35, wines produced with the new or modified oenological
practice, process or compositional requirement notified by a Contracting Party under Article 6(4) shall be
provisionally authorised for import and marketing in the territory of the other Contracting Party.

Article 9

Objection procedure

1. Within 6 months after a Contracting Party receives notification from the other Contracting Party under
Article 6(4), the first Contracting Party may object in writing to the notified new or modified oenological
practice, process or compositional requirement on the ground that it does not meet the objective set out in
Article 7(1)(b) and/or (c). If an objection is made by a Contracting Party, either Contracting Party may seek
consultations provided for in Article 37. Should the matter not be resolved within 12 months after the
Contracting Party receives notification under Article 6(4), either Contracting Party may invoke arbitration
under Article 10.

2. Within two months after receiving the notification referred to in paragraph 1, the Contracting Party may
seek information or an opinion from the Organisation Internationale de la Vigne et du Vin (OIV) or another
relevant international body. If such information or opinion is sought, and without prejudice to the other time
limits provided for in paragraph 1, the Contracting Parties may mutually agree to extend the 6 month period
for an objection to be made by the Contracting Party.

3. The arbitrators referred to in Article 10 shall make the determination as to whether the notified new or
modified oenological practice or process or compositional requirement fulfils the objective set out in Article
7(1)(b) and/or(c).

4. In relation to a request by a Contracting Party for authorisation of an oenological practice, process or
compositional requirement that has been authorised by the other Contracting Party for commercial use by
a third country, the time limits provided for in paragraph 1 shall be reduced by half.

Article 10

Oenological practices arbitration

1. A Contracting Party may invoke arbitration pursuant to Article 9 by notifying the other Contracting Party
in writing of the submission of the issue to arbitration.

2. Within 30 days after the receipt of the notification referred to in paragraph 1, each of the Contracting
Parties shall appoint an arbitrator applying the criteria of paragraph 6 and notify the other Contracting Party
of the selection.

3. Within 30 days of the date of the appointment of the second arbitrator, the two arbitrators appointed in
accordance with paragraph 2 shall by mutual agreement appoint a third arbitrator. If the first two arbitrators
are unable to agree on a third arbitrator, the Contracting Parties shall jointly agree on the appointment of
the third arbitrator within 30 days.

4. If the Contracting Parties are unable to select jointly a third arbitrator within the 30-day period referred to
in paragraph 3, the necessary appointment shall be made within a further 60 days, at the request of either
Contracting Party, by the President or a Member of the International Court of Justice (considered in the
order of seniority), applying the criteria of paragraph 5, in accordance with the practice of the Court.

5. The third arbitrator appointed shall preside over the arbitration and shall have legal qualifications.

6. The arbitrators (other than the presiding member) shall be experts of international standing in the field of
oenology whose impartiality is beyond doubt.

7. Within 30 days of the selection of the third arbitrator, the three arbitrators shall jointly determine the rules
of working procedure that shall apply to the arbitration, taking into account the Permanent Court of
Arbitration Optional Rules for Arbitrating Disputes Between Two States, except that the rules of working
procedure may be waived or modified by mutual agreement of the Contracting Parties at any time.

8. The three arbitrators shall arrive at conclusions in relation to the issue in question within a maximum of
90 days of the appointment of the third arbitrator. Such conclusions shall be arrived at by majority decision.
Specifically, the arbitrators, in their conclusions, shall set out their determination as provided for by Article
9(3).

Page7of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.9. The costs of the arbitration, including the costs of remuneration of the arbitrators, will be borne equally
by the Contracting Parties. The fees and expenses payable to the arbitrators shall be subject to the
schedule established by the Joint Committee.

10. The arbitrators shall make a determination which shall be final and binding.

Article 11

Modification of Annex I

1. The Contracting Parties shall modify Annex I or the Protocol in accordance with Article 29(3)(a) or
30(3)(a) to take account of the new or modified oenological practice, process or compositional requirement
notified pursuant to Article 6(4) as soon as practicable, but no later than 15 months after the date of such
notification.

2. By way of derogation from paragraph 1, where a Contracting Party has invoked the objection procedure
provided for in Article 9, the Contracting Parties shall act in accordance with the outcome of the
consultations, unless the matter is referred to arbitration, in which case:

(a) if the arbitrators determine that the notified new or modified oenological practice, process or
compositional requirement fulfils the objectives set out in Article 7(1)(b) and/or (c), the Contracting Parties
shall modify Annex I or the Protocol in accordance with Article 29(3)(a) or 30(3)(a) to add the new or
modified oenological practice, process or compositional requirement, within 90 days of the date of such
determination;

(b) if however, the arbitrators determine that the notified new or modified oenological practice, process or
compositional requirement does not fulfil the objectives set out in Article 7(1)(b) and/or (c) the provisional
authorisation for the import and marketing of wines originating in the territory of the notifying Contracting
Party produced in accordance with the oenological practice, process or compositional requirement in
question, as referred to in Article 8, shall cease 90 days after the date of such determination.

TITLE II

PROTECTION OF WINE NAMES AND RELATED PROVISIONS ON DESCRIPTION AND
PRESENTATION

Article 12

Protected names

1. Without prejudice to Articles 15, 17 and 22, and the Protocol, the following names are protected:

(a) as regards wines originating in the Community:

I. the geographical indications listed in Annex II, Part A;

II. references to the Member State in which the wine originates or other names used to indicate the
Member State;

III. the traditional expressions listed in Annex III;

IV. the categories of wine referred to in Article 54 of Council Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999 on the
common organisation of the market in wine relating to quality wines produced in specified regions, and
referred to in Annex IV, Part A; and

V. the sales descriptions referred to in Annex VIII, Part D, point 2(c) first indent of Council Regulation (EC)
No 1493/1999 on the common organisation of the market in wine relating to quality wines produced in
specified regions, and referred to in Annex IV, Part B;

(b) as regards wines originating in Australia:

I. the geographical indications listed in Annex II, Part B; and

II. references to "Australia" or other names used to indicate this country.

2. The Contracting Parties shall take all necessary measures to prevent, in cases where wines originating
in the Contracting Parties are exported and marketed outside of their territories, the use of protected
names of one Contracting Party referred to in this Article to describe and present a wine originating in the
other Contracting Party, except as provided for in this Agreement.

Page8of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Article 13

Geographical indications

1. Unless as otherwise provided for in this Agreement:

(a) in Australia, the geographical indications for the Community which are listed in Annex II, Part A:

I. are protected for wines originating in the Community; and

II. may not be used by the Community otherwise than under the conditions provided for by the laws and
regulations of the Community; and

(b) in the Community, the geographical indications for Australia which are listed in Annex II, Part B:

I. are protected for wines originating in Australia; and

II. may not be used by Australia otherwise than under the conditions provided for by the laws and
regulations of Australia.

2. The Contracting Parties shall take the measures necessary, in accordance with this Agreement, for the
reciprocal protection of the geographical indications listed in Annex II, which are used for the description
and presentation of wines originating in the territory of the Contracting Parties. Each Contracting Party shall
provide the legal means for interested parties to prevent the use of a geographical indication listed in
Annex II to identify wines not originating in the place indicated by the geographical indication in question.

3. The protection provided for in paragraph 2 applies, even when:

(a) the true origin of the wine is indicated;

(b) the geographical indication is used in translation; or

(c) the indications used are accompanied by expressions such as "kind", "type", "style", "imitation",
"method" or the like.

4. The protection provided for in paragraphs 2 and 3 is without prejudice to Articles 15 and 22.

5. The registration of a trade mark for wines which contains or consists of a geographical indication
identifying a wine as listed in Annex II shall be refused, or if domestic legislation so permits and at the
request of an interested party shall be invalidated, with respect to such wines not originating in the place
indicated by the geographical indication.

6. If geographical indications listed in Annex II are homonymous, protection shall be granted to each
indication provided that it has been used in good faith. The Contracting Parties shall mutually decide the
practical conditions of use under which the homonymous geographical indications will be differentiated
from each other, taking into account the need to ensure equitable treatment of the producers concerned
and that consumers are not misled.

7. If a geographical indication listed in Annex II is homonymous with a geographical indication for a third
country, Article 23(3) of the TRIPs Agreement applies.

8. The provisions of this Agreement shall in no way prejudice the right of any person to use, in the course
of trade, that person's name or the name of that person's predecessor in business, except where such
name is used in such a manner as to mislead consumers.

9. Nothing in this Agreement shall oblige a Contracting Party to protect a geographical indication of the
other Contracting Party listed in Annex II which is not or ceases to be protected in its country of origin or
which has fallen into disuse in that country.

10. The Contracting Parties affirm that rights and obligations under this Agreement do not arise for any
geographical indications other than those listed in Annex II. Without prejudice to the Agreement's
provisions on the protection of geographical indications, the TRIPs Agreement applies to the protection of
geographical indications in each of the Contracting Parties.

Article 14

Names or reference to Member States and Australia

1. In Australia, references to the Member States of the Community, and other names used to indicate a
Member State, for the purpose of identifying the origin of the wine:

Page9of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.(a) are reserved for wines originating in the Member State concerned; and

(b) may not be used by the Community otherwise than under the conditions provided for by the laws and
regulations of the Community.

2. In the Community, references to Australia, and other names used to indicate Australia, for the purpose of
identifying the origin of the wine:

(a) are reserved for wines originating in Australia; and

(b) may not be used by Australia otherwise than under the conditions provided for by the laws and
regulations of Australia.

Article 15

Transitional arrangements

The protection of the names referred to in Article 12(1)(a)(I) and Article 13 shall not prevent the use by
Australia of the following names to describe and present a wine in Australia, and in third countries where
the laws and regulations so permit, during the following transitional periods:

(a) 12 months after entry into force of this Agreement, for the following names: Burgundy, Chablis,
Champagne, Graves, Manzanilla, Marsala, Moselle, Port, Sauterne, Sherry and White Burgundy;

(b) 10 years after entry into force of this Agreement, for the name Tokay.

Article 16

Traditional expressions

1. Unless as otherwise provided for in this Agreement, in Australia, the traditional expressions for the
Community listed in Annex III:

(a) shall not be used for the description or presentation of wine originating in Australia; and

(b) may not be used for the description or presentation of wine originating in the Community otherwise than
in relation to the wines of the origin and the category and in the language as listed in Annex III and under
the conditions provided for by the laws and regulations of the Community.

2. Australia shall take the measures necessary, in accordance with this Agreement, for the protection in
accordance with this Article of the traditional expressions listed in Annex III which are used for the
description and presentation of wines originating in the territory of the Community. To that end, Australia
shall provide appropriate legal means to ensure effective protection and prevent the traditional expressions
from being used to describe wine not entitled to those traditional expressions, even where the traditional
expressions used are accompanied by expressions such as "kind", "type", "style", "imitation", "method" or
the like.

3. The protection provided for in paragraph 2 is without prejudice to Articles 17 and 23.

4. The protection of a traditional expression shall apply only:

(a) to the language or languages in which it appears in Annex III; and

(b) for a category of wine in relation to which it is protected for the Community as set out in Annex III.

5. Australia may allow the use in its territory of terms identical with or similar to the traditional expressions
listed in Annex III for wine not originating in the territory of the Contracting Parties provided that consumers
are not misled, the origin of the product is stated and the use does not constitute unfair competition as that
term is understood in Article 10bis of the Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property of 20
March 1883 as amended.

6. This Agreement shall in no way prejudice the right of any person to use, in the course of trade, that
person's name or the name of that person's predecessor in business, except where such name is used in
such a manner as to mislead the consumer.

7. Without limiting paragraph 5, Australia shall not permit within its territory the registration or use of a trade
mark which contains or consists of a traditional expression listed in Annex III to describe and present a
wine, unless this Agreement permits the use of the traditional expression in relation to the wine concerned.
However, this requirement:

Page10of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.(a) does not apply in relation to trade marks legally registered in good faith in Australia, or that have
legitimately acquired rights in Australia by being used in good faith, before the date of signature of this
Agreement;

(b) in the case of traditional expressions included in Annex III after the date of signature of this Agreement,
does not apply in relation to trademarks registered in good faith in Australia, or that have legitimately
acquired rights in Australia by being used in good faith, before the relevant traditional expression is
protected under this Agreement; and

(c) does not prevent the use of trademarks referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) in third countries where the
laws and regulations of the third country so permit.

This provision does not prejudice the right of the Community to use the relevant traditional expression in
conformity with paragraph (1)(b).

8. Without limiting paragraphs 5, 6 and 7 and Article 23, Australia shall not permit within its territory the use
of a business name which contains or consists of a traditional expression listed in Annex III of this
Agreement to describe and present a wine. However, this requirement:

(a) does not apply in relation to business names legally registered in good faith in Australia before the date
of signature of this Agreement;

(b) in the case of traditional expressions included in Annex III after the date of signature, does not apply in
relation to business names legally registered in good faith in Australia before the relevant traditional
expression is protected under this Agreement; and

(c) does not prevent the use of such business names in third countries where the laws and regulations of
the third country so permit.

Paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) do not permit the business name to be used in a manner so as to mislead the
consumer.

9. Nothing in this Agreement shall oblige Australia to protect a traditional expression listed in Annex III
which is not or ceases to be protected in its country of origin or which has fallen into disuse in the
Community.

Article 17

Transitional arrangements

The protection of the names referred to in Article 12(1)(a)(III) and Article 16 shall not prevent the use by
Australia of the following names to describe and present a wine in Australia, and in third countries where
the laws and regulations so permit, during the transitional period of 12 months after entry into force of this
Agreement: Amontillado, Auslese, Claret, Fino, Oloroso, Spatlese.

Article 18

Wine Categories and sales descriptions

1. Unless as otherwise provided for in this Agreement, in Australia the wine categories listed in Annex IV,
Part A and sales descriptions listed in Annex IV, Part B:

(a) are reserved to the wines originating in the Community; and

(b) may not be used by the Community otherwise than under the conditions provided for by the laws and
regulations of the Community.

2. Nothing in this Agreement shall oblige Australia to reserve a wine category or sales description listed in
Annex IV which is not or ceases to be reserved in its country of origin or which has fallen into disuse in the
Community.

TITLE III

SPECIFIC PROVISIONS ON PRESENTATION AND DESCRIPTION

Article 19

General principle

Page11of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Wines may not be labelled with a term which is false or misleading about the character, composition,
quality or origin of a wine.

Article 20

Optional particulars

1. For trade in wine between the Contracting Parties, a wine originating in Australia:

(a) that bears a geographical indication listed in Annex II, Part B, may be described or presented in the
Community with the optional particulars set out in paragraph 3, provided that use of the particulars
conforms to the rules applicable to wine producers in Australia, and in particular the Australian Wine and
Brandy Corporation Act 1980, Trade Practices Act 1974, and the Australia New Zealand Food Standards
Code; and

(b) that does not bear a geographical indication listed in Annex II, Part B, may be described or presented in
the Community with the optional particulars set out in paragraphs 3(d), (g), and (l), provided that use of the
particulars conforms to the rules applicable to wine producers in Australia, and in particular the Australian
Wine and Brandy Corporation Act 1980, Trade Practices Act 1974, and the Australia New Zealand Food
Standards Code.

2. For trade in wine between the Contracting Parties, a wine originating in the Community:

(a) that bears a geographical indication listed in Annex II, Part A may be described or presented in
Australia with the optional particulars set out in paragraph 3, provided that the wine is labelled in conformity
with Chapter II of Title V and Annexes VII and VIII of Council Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999, and
Commission Regulation (EC) No 753/2002, and use of the particulars is not false or misleading to
consumers within the meaning of the Australian Wine and Brandy Corporation Act 1980 and Trade
Practices Act 1974; and

(b) that does not bear a geographical indication listed in Annex II, Part A, may be described or presented in
Australia with the optional particulars set out in paragraphs 3(d), (g), and (l), provided that the wine is
labelled in conformity with Chapter II of Title V and Annexes VII and VIII of the Council Regulation (EC) No
1493/1999, and Commission Regulation (EC) No 753/2002, and use of the particulars is not false or
misleading to consumers within the meaning of the Australian Wine and Brandy Corporation Act 1980 and
Trade Practices Act 1974.

3. Optional particulars referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 are:

(a) the vintage year corresponding to the year of harvest of the grapes, provided that at least 85 % of the
wine is derived from grapes in the year concerned, except for Community wines obtained from grapes
harvested in winter, in which case the year of the beginning of the current marketing year shall be shown
rather than the vintage year;

(b) the name of a vine variety or its synonym in accordance with Article 22;

(c) an indication relating to an award, medal or competition, and in the case of an Australian award, medal
or competition, provided that the competition has been advised to the competent body of the Community;

(d) an indication of the product type as specified in Annex VI;

(e) the name of the vineyard;

(f) in the case of a wine originating in the territory of the Community, the name of a wine growing holding
provided the grapes are grown on that wine growing holding, and the wine is vinified on that wine growing
holding;

(g) a specific colour of the wine;

(h) the bottling location of the wine;

(i) subject to Annex VIII, an indication concerning the method used to produce the wine;

(j) in the case of the Community, a traditional expression as listed in Annex III;

(k) in the case of Australia, a quality wine term as listed in Annex V;

(l) the name, title and address of a person that took part in the marketing of the wine.

Page12of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Article 21

Presentation

1. The Contracting Parties agree that where particulars are compulsory for inclusion on a wine label in the
laws and regulations of the importing Contracting Party, other particulars may be presented in the same
field of vision as the compulsory particulars or elsewhere on the wine container.

2. Notwithstanding paragraph 1, if a quality wine term listed in Annex V is used as part of the primary sales
designation on a wine label it must be used in the same field of vision as a geographical indication for
Australia listed in Annex II, Part B, in characters of substantially the same size. For this paragraph, "primary
sales designation" means the designation of the product that appears on the part of the wine container or
package intended to be presented to the consumer under normal display conditions.

3. The Contracting Parties agree that the particulars referred to in paragraph 1, including a quality wine
term listed in Annex V, may be repeated anywhere on the wine container, whether or not they appear in the
same field of vision as a geographical indication listed in Annex II.

4. The Community agrees that a wine originating in Australia may be described or presented in the
Community with particulars of the number of standard drinks in the wine, provided that use of the
particulars conforms to the rules applicable to wine producers in Australia, and in particular the Australian
Wine and Brandy Corporation Act 1980, Trade Practices Act 1974, and the Australia New Zealand Food
Standards Code.

Article 22

Vine varieties

1. Each Contracting Party agrees to allow in its territory the use by the other Contracting Party of the
names of one or more vine varieties, or, where applicable, their synonyms, to describe and present a wine,
so long as the following conditions are complied with:

(a) the vine varieties or their synonyms appear in the variety classification drawn up by the Organisation
International de la Vigne et du Vin (OIV), Union for the Protection of Plan Varieties (UPOV) or International
Board for Plant Genetic Resources (IGPBR);

(b) where the wine is not composed entirely of the named vine variety(ies), or their synonyms, at least 85
% of the wine shall be obtained from the named variety(-ies), after deduction of the quantity of the products
used for possible sweetening and cultures of micro organisms (which quantity shall be no more than 5 % of
the wine);

(c) each labelled vine variety(-ies) or their synonyms must be in greater proportion in the composition of the
wine than any unlabelled variety(-ies);

(d) where two or more vine varieties or their synonyms are named, they shall be indicated in descending
order of the proportion used in the composition of the wine and in characters of any size;

(e) vine variety(-ies) or their synonyms shall be shown either in the same visual field or outside, depending
on the internal legislation of the exporting country;

(f) the name of the variety(-ies) or their synonyms shall not be used in such a manner as to mislead
consumers as to the origin of the wine. For this purpose, the Contracting Parties may determine the
practical conditions under which a name may be used.

2. Notwithstanding paragraph 1 and Article 12(1)(a)(I) and Article 12(1)(b)(I), the Contracting Parties agree
that:

(a) if a vine variety or its synonym contains or consists of a geographical indication listed in Annex II, Part A
for the Community, Australia may use the vine variety or synonym for the description or presentation of a
wine originating in the territory of Australia if the vine variety or synonym is listed in Annex VII; and

(b) if a vine variety or synonym contains or consists of a geographical indication listed in Annex II, Part B
for Australia, the Community may use the vine variety or synonym for the description or presentation of a
wine originating in the territory of the Community if the vine variety or synonym was used in good faith
before the date of entry into force of this Agreement.

3. Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 12 and this Article, the Contracting Parties agree that during a
transitional period ending 12 months after entry into force of this Agreement the name "Hermitage" may be
used for wines originating in Australia as a synonym for the vine variety "Shiraz" for sale in countries

Page13of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.outside the territory of the Community insofar as the laws and regulations in Australia and other countries
permit, provided that this name is not used in such a manner as to mislead consumers.

4. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Article, the Contracting Parties agree that during the transitional
period ending 12 months after entry into force of this Agreement the vine variety name "Lambrusco" may
be used for wines originating in Australia as a description of a style of wine traditionally made and
marketed under that name for sale in countries outside the territory of the Community insofar as the laws
and regulations in Australia and other countries permit, provided that the name is not used in such a
manner as to mislead consumers.

Article 23

Quality wine terms

Australia may use the terms listed in Annex V to describe and present a wine originating in Australia, in
accordance with the conditions of use set out in that Annex and in conformity with Article 20.

Article 24

Wines originating in Australia with a geographical indication

Without prejudice to more restrictive Australian legislation, the Contracting Parties agree that Australia may
use a geographical indication listed in Annex II, Part B to describe and present a wine originating in
Australia under the following conditions:

(a) where a single geographical indication is used, at least 85 % of the wine shall be obtained from grapes
harvested in this geographical unit;

(b) where up to three geographical indications are used for the same wine:

I. at least 95 % of the wine shall be obtained from grapes harvested in these geographical units provided
there is a minimum of 5 % of wine from any of the named geographical indications; and

II. the geographical indications shown on the label shall be named in descending order of proportion.

Article 25

Enforcement of the labelling requirements
1. If the description or presentation of a wine, particularly on the label, in the official or commercial
documents, or in advertising, is in breach of this Agreement, the Contracting Parties shall apply the
necessary administrative measures or legal proceedings in accordance with their respective laws and
regulations.

2. The measures and proceedings laid down in paragraph 1 shall be taken in particular in the following
cases:

(a) where the translation of descriptions provided for by Community or Australian legislation into the
language or languages of the other Contracting Party results in the appearance of a word which is
misleading as to the origin, nature or quality of the wine thus described or presented;

(b) where descriptions, trade marks, names, inscriptions or illustrations directly or indirectly give false or
misleading information as to the provenance, origin, nature, vine variety or material qualities of the wine,
appear on containers, packaging, in advertising, or in official or commercial documents relating to wines
whose names are protected under this Agreement;

(c) where packaging is used which is misleading as to the origin of the wine.

Article 26

Standstill

The Contracting Parties shall not, under their domestic legislation, impose conditions less favourable than
those provided for in this Agreement or in their domestic legislation in force as at the date of signature of
this Agreement, in particular the legislation referred to in Annex IX, in relation to the description,
presentation, packaging or composition of wines from the other Contracting Party.

TITLE IV

CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS

Page14of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Article 27

Certification

1. The Community shall authorise, without any time limit, the importation of wine originating in Australia in
accordance with the simplified certification provisions provided for in the second subparagraph of Article
24(2) and Article 26 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 883/2001 laying down the detailed rules for
implementing Council Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999 as regards trade with third countries in the wine
sector. For this purpose, and in accordance with the said provisions, Australia shall:

(a) provide the certification documents and analysis report through the competent body; or

(b) where the competent body in subparagraph (a) is satisfied that individual producers are competent to
carry out these responsibilities:

I. individually recognise the producers authorised to draw up the certification documents and the analysis
reports;

II. supervise and inspect the authorised producers;

III. forward to the Commission twice yearly, in the months of January and July, the names and addresses
of the authorised producers together with their official registration numbers;

IV. inform the Commission without delay of any modification of the names and addresses of authorised
producers; and

V. notify the Commission without delay when a producer's authorisation is withdrawn.

2. Notwithstanding Article 26 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 883/2001, relating to the simplified VI 1
form, only the following information is required:

(a) in box 2 of the certification document, the name and address of the importer or consignee;

(b) in box 6 of the certification document, the "description of the product" comprising: the nominal volume
(e.g. 75cl), the sales designation (i.e. ‘wine of Australia), the protected geographical indication (see Annex
II, Part B), the quality wine term (see Annex V), the name of the vine variety(-ies) and the vintage year, if
they appear on the label;

(c) in box 11 of the certification document, the unique analysis number provided by the competent body of
Australia.

3. For the purpose of this Article, the competent body in the case of Australia shall be the Australian Wine
and Brandy Corporation or such other body that may be designated by Australia to be a competent body or
bodies.

4. Subject to Article 28, the Community shall not submit the import of wine originating in Australia to a more
restrictive or far-reaching system of certification than that which applied to such imports in the Community
on 1 March 1994, and that which may be applied to wines imported from other countries applying
equivalent supervision and control measures.

5. Subject to Article 28, Australia shall not submit the import of wine originating in the Community to a more
restrictive or far-reaching system of certification than that which applied to such imports in Australia on 1
January 1992, and that which may be applied to wines imported from other countries applying equivalent
supervision and control measures.

Article 28

Temporary certification

1. The Contracting Parties reserve the right to introduce temporary additional certification requirements in
response to legitimate public policy concerns, such as health or consumer protection or in order to act
against fraud. In this case the other Contracting Party shall be given adequate information in sufficient time
to permit the fulfilment of the additional requirements.

2. The Contracting Parties agree that such requirements shall not extend beyond the period of time
necessary to respond to the particular public policy concern in response to which they were introduced.

TITLE V

Page15of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.MANAGEMENT OF THE AGREEMENT

Article 29

Cooperation between the Contracting Parties

1. The Contracting Parties shall directly through their representative bodies, and through the Joint
Committee established under Article 30, maintain contact on all matters relating to this Agreement. In
particular, the Contracting Parties shall seek to resolve any issue between them arising from this
Agreement through their representative bodies or the Joint Committee, in the first instance.

2. Australia designates the Department of Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry (or any successor agency of
the Australian Government that assumes the relevant functions of that Department) as its representative
body. The Community designates the Directorate-General for Agriculture and Rural Development of the
European Commission as its representative body. A Contracting Party shall notify the other Contracting
Party if it changes its representative body.

3. Australia, represented by the Department of Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry, and the Community:

(a) may agree that the Annexes or the Protocol to this Agreement should be modified. The Annex or
Protocol shall be deemed to be modified from the date agreed by the Contracting Parties;

(b) may agree the practical conditions referred to in Articles 13(6) and 22(1)(f);

(c) shall communicate in writing to each other the intention to decide new regulations or amendments of
existing regulations of public policy concern, such as health or consumer protection, with implications for
the wine sector;

(d) shall communicate in writing to each other any legislative or administrative measures and judicial
decisions concerning the application of this Agreement and inform each other of measures adopted on the
basis of such decisions; and

(e) may agree that a reference to a law or regulation in a provision of this Agreement should be taken to be
a reference to that law or regulation as amended and in force at a particular date after the date of signature
of this Agreement.

Article 30

Joint Committee

1. A Joint Committee shall be established, consisting of representatives of the Community and of Australia.

2. The Joint Committee may make recommendations and adopt decisions by consensus. It shall determine
its own rules of procedure. It shall meet at the request of either of the Contracting Parties, alternately in the
Community and in Australia, at a time and a place and in a manner (which may include by
videoconference) mutually determined by the Contracting Parties, but no later than 90 days after the
request.

3. The Joint Committee may decide:

(a) to modify the Annexes or the Protocol to this Agreement. The Annex or Protocol shall be deemed to be
modified from the date agreed by the Contracting Parties;

(b) the practical conditions referred to in Article 13(6) and Article 22(1)(f); and

(c) that a reference to a law or regulation in a provision of this Agreement should be taken to be a
reference to that law or regulation as amended and in force at a particular date after the date of signature
of this Agreement.

4. The Joint Committee shall also see to the proper functioning of this Agreement and may consider any
matter related to its implementation and operation. In particular, it shall be responsible for:

(a) exchanging information between the Contracting Parties to optimise the operation of this Agreement;

(b) recommending proposals on issues of mutual interest to the Contracting Parties in the wine or spirits
sector;

(c) establishing the schedule of fees and expenses referred to in Article 10(9) and 38(7).

5. The Joint Committee may discuss any matter of mutual interest in the wine sector.

Page16of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.6. The Joint Committee may facilitate the contacts between wine producer and industry representatives of
the Contracting Parties.

Article 31

Application and operation of the Agreement

The Contracting Parties designate the contact points set out in Annex X to be responsible for the
application and operation of this Agreement.

Article 32

Mutual assistance between the Contracting Parties

1. If a Contracting Party has reason to suspect that:

(a) a wine or batch of wines as defined in Article 2, being or having been traded between Australia and the
Community, does not comply with the rules governing the wine sector in the Community or in Australia or
with this Agreement; and

(b) this non-compliance is of particular interest to the other Contracting Party and could result in
administrative measures or legal proceedings being taken,

that Contracting Party shall, through its designated contact point, immediately inform the contact point or
other relevant bodies of the other Contracting Party.

2. The information to be provided in accordance with paragraph 1 shall be accompanied by official,
commercial or other appropriate documents; there should also be an indication of what administrative
measures or legal proceedings may, if necessary, be taken. The information shall include, in particular, the
following details of the wine concerned:

(a) the producer and the person who has power of disposal over the wine;

(b) the composition and organoleptic characteristics of the wine;

(c) the description and presentation of the wine;

(d) details of the non-compliance with the rules concerning production and marketing.

TITLE VI

GENERAL PROVISIONS

Article 33

Wines in transit

Titles I, II, III and IV shall not apply to wines that:

(a) are in transit through the territory of one of the Contracting Parties; or

(b) originate in the territory of one of the Contracting Parties and which are consigned in small quantities
between the Contracting Parties under the conditions and according to the procedures provided for in point
II of the Protocol.

Article 34

WTO Agreement

This Agreement shall apply without prejudice to the rights and obligations of the Contracting Parties under
the WTO Agreement.

Article 35

Sanitary and phytosanitary measures

1. The provisions of this Agreement shall be without prejudice to the right of the Contracting Parties to take
sanitary and phytosanitary measures necessary for the protection of human, animal or plant life or health,
provided that such measures are not inconsistent with the provisions of the Agreement on the Application
of Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures contained in Annex 1A of the WTO Agreement.

Page17of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.2. Each Party shall endeavour to inform the other Party under the procedures set out in Article 29 at the
earliest reasonable opportunity of developments which could lead, in relation to wine marketed in its
territory, to the adoption of measures necessary for the protection of human, animal or plant life or health,
especially those concerning the setting of specific limits on contaminants and residues with a view to
agreeing a common approach.

3. Without prejudice to paragraph 2, in a case where one Contracting Party takes or proposes to take
urgent sanitary and phytosanitary measures on the grounds that an authorised oenological practice,
process or compositional requirement endangers human health, the Contracting Party shall communicate
with the other Contracting Party, either through their respective representative bodies or the Joint
Committee, within 30 days after the urgent measure is taken or proposed, as the case requires, with a view
to agreeing a common approach.

Article 36

Territorial scope

This Agreement shall apply, on the one hand, to the territories in which the Treaty establishing the
European Community is applied and under the conditions laid down in that Treaty and, on the other hand,
to the territory of Australia.

Article 37

Consultations

1. If a Contracting Party considers that the other Contracting Party has failed to fulfil an obligation under
this Agreement, and it has not been possible to resolve the issue pursuant to Article 29(1), it may request
in writing consultations with the other Contracting Party. Within 30 days after receipt of the request, the
Contracting Parties shall consult each other with a view to resolving the issue.

2. The Contracting Party requesting the consultations shall provide the other Contracting Party with all the
information necessary for a detailed examination of the issue in question.

3. In cases where any delay could endanger human health or impair the effectiveness of measures to
control fraud, appropriate interim protective measures may be taken by a Contracting Party provided that
such consultations are held immediately after the taking of these measures.

4. If the issue has not been resolved within 60 days after receipt of the request for consultations, the
Contracting Parties may, by mutual agreement:

(a) extend the consultation period; or

(b) refer the issue to a relevant body for its consideration.

Article 38

Arbitration

1. If it is not possible to resolve an issue in accordance with Article 37 (other than an objection under Article
9), the Contracting Parties may, by mutual agreement, submit the issue to arbitration in which case they
will each notify the other of the appointment of an arbitrator within 60 days applying the criteria set out in
paragraph 4.

2. Within 30 days of the date of the appointment of the second arbitrator, the two arbitrators appointed in
accordance with paragraph 1 shall by mutual agreement appoint a third arbitrator. If the first two arbitrators
are unable to agree on a third arbitrator, the Contracting Parties shall jointly agree on the appointment of
the third arbitrator within 30 days.

3. If the Contracting Parties are unable to select jointly a third arbitrator within the 30-day period referred to
in paragraph 2, the necessary appointment shall be made within a further 60 days, at the request of either
Contracting Party, by the President or a Member of the International Court of Justice (considered in the
order of seniority), applying the criteria of paragraph 4 of this Article, in accordance with the practice of the
Court.

4. The third arbitrator appointed shall preside over the arbitration and shall have legal qualifications. The
arbitrators (other than the presiding member) shall be suitably qualified in the field being considered by the
arbitration panel.

Page18of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.5. Within 30 days of the selection of the third arbitrator, the three arbitrators shall jointly determine the rules
of working procedure that shall apply to the arbitration, taking into account the Permanent Court of
Arbitration Optional Rules for Arbitrating Disputes Between Two States, except that the rules of working
procedure may be waived or modified by mutual agreement of the Contracting Parties at any time.

6. The three arbitrators shall arrive at conclusions in relation to the issue in question within a maximum of
90 days of the appointment of the third arbitrator. Such conclusions shall be arrived at by majority decision.

7. The costs of the arbitration, including the costs of remuneration of the arbitrators, will be borne equally
by the Contracting Parties. The fees and expenses payable to the arbitrators shall be subject to the
schedule established by the Joint Committee.

8. The arbitrators shall make a determination which shall be final and binding.

9. The Contracting Parties may, by mutual agreement, submit to arbitration under this Article any other
issue relating to bilateral trade in wine.

Article 39

Cooperation in the wine sector

1. The Contracting Parties may by mutual consent amend this Agreement in order to enhance the level of
cooperation in the wine sector. They agree to initiate consultations with a view to harmonising rules on
wine labelling requirements.

2. Within the framework of this Agreement, either of the Contracting Parties may put forward suggestions
for widening the scope of their cooperation, taking into account the experience gained in its application.

Article 40

Existing stocks

Wines which, at the time of entry into force of this Agreement or at the end of the relevant transitional
periods provided for in Articles 15, 17 or 22(3) and (4), have been legally produced, described and
presented in a manner prohibited by the Agreement, may be marketed under the following conditions:

(a) where the wine has been produced using one or more oenological practices or processes not referred
to in Annex I, the wines may be marketed until stocks are exhausted;

(b) where wines are described and presented using terms prohibited by this Agreement, the wines may be
marketed:

I. by wholesalers:

A. for liqueur wines, for a period of five years;

B. for other wines, for a period of three years;

II. by retailers until stocks are exhausted.

Article 41

Agreement

The Protocol and Annexes appended to this Agreement shall form an integral part thereof.

Article 42

Authentic languages

This Agreement is drawn up in duplicate in the Bulgarian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, English, Estonian,
Finnish, French, German, Greek, Hungarian, Italian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Maltese, Polish, Portuguese,
Romanian, Slovak, Slovenian, Spanish and Swedish languages, all these texts being equally authentic.

Article 43

Termination of 1994 Agreement

The Contracting Parties agree that on and from the date of entry into force of this Agreement, the following
instruments are terminated:

Page19of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.(a) the Agreement between Australia and the European Community on Trade in Wine, and Protocol, done
at Brussels and Canberra ( 26- 31 January 1994);

(b) the related exchanges of letters done at Brussels and Canberra ( 26- 31 January 1994) titled as follows:

I. on the conditions governing the production and labelling of "bottle fermented" sparkling wines originating
in Australia;

II. on the conditions governing the production and labelling of Australian wines described by and presented
with the terms "botrytis" or like, "noble late harvested" or "special late harvested";

III. concerning Articles 8 and 14 of the Agreement between the European Community and Australia
[Australia and the European Community] on trade in wine;

IV. concerning the relationship between the Agreement between the European Community and Australia
[Australia and the European Community] on trade in wine and Article 24(1) of the Agreement on Trade
Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPs);

V. regarding the Agreement between the European Community and Australia [Australia and the European
Community] on trade in wine;

VI. on the use in Australia of the term "Frontignac".

Article 44

Entry into force

1. This Agreement shall enter into force on the first day of the second month after the date on which the
Contracting Parties have notified each other in writing that their respective requirements for the entry into
force of this Agreement have been complied with.

2. Either Contracting Party may terminate this Agreement by giving one year's written notice to the other
Contracting Party.

Съставено в Брюксел на първи декември две хиляди и осма година.

Hecho en Bruselas el uno de diciembre de dosmil ocho.

V Bruselu dne prvního prosince dva tisíce osm.

Udfærdiget i Bruxelles den første december to tusind og otte.

Geschehen zu Brüssel am ersten Dezember zweitausendacht.

Kahe tuhande kaheksanda aasta detsembrikuu esimesel päeval Brüsselis.

Έγινε στις Βρυξέλλες, την πρώτη Δεκεμβρίου δύο χιλιάδες οκτώ.

Done at Brussels on the first day of December in the year two thousand and eight.

Fait à Bruxelles, le premier décembre deux mille huit.

Fatto a Bruxelles, addì primo dicembre duemilaotto.

Briselē, divtūkstoš astotā gada pirmajā decembrī.

Priimta du tūkstančiai aštuntų metų gruodžio pirmą dieną Briuselyje.

Kelt Brüsszelben, a kétezer-nyolcadik év december első napján.

Magħmul fi Brussell, fl- ewwel jum ta' Diċembru tas-sena elfejn u tmienja.

Gedaan te Brussel, de eerste december tweeduizend acht.

Sporządzono w Brukseli dnia pierwszego grudnia roku dwa tysiące ósmego.

Feito em Bruxelas, em um de Dezembro de dois mil e oito.

Întocmit la Bruxelles, la întâi decembrie două mii opt.

V Bruseli dňa prvého decembra dvetisícosem.

Page20of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.V Bruslju, dne prvega decembra leta dva tisoč osem.

Tehty Brysselissä ensimmäisenä päivänä joulukuuta vuonna kaksituhattakahdeksan.

Som skedde i Bryssel den första december tjugohundraåtta.

За Европейската общност

Por la Comunidad Europea

Za Evropské společenství

For Det Europæiske Fællesskab

Für die Europäische Gemeinschaft

Euroopa Ühenduse nimel

Για την Ευρωπαϊκή Κοινότητα

For the European Community

Pour la Communauté européenne

Per la Comunità europea

Eiropas Kopienas vārdā

Europos bendrijos vardu

Az Európai Közösség részéről

Għall-Komunità Ewropea

Voor de Europese Gemeenschap

W imieniu Wspólnoty Europejskiej

Pela Comunidade Europeia

Pentru Comunitatea Europeană

Za Európske spoločenstvo

Za Evropsko skupnost

Euroopan yhteisön puolesta

För Europeiska gemenskapen

+++++ TIFF +++++

За Австралия

Por Australia

Za Austrálii

For Australien

Für Australien

Austraalia nimel

Για τηυ Αυστραλία

For Australia

Pour l'Australie

Per l'Australia

Page21of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Austrālijas vārdā

Australijos vardu

Ausztrália részéről

Għall-Awstralja

Voor Australië

W imieniu Australii

Pela Austrália

Pentru Australia

Za Austráliu

Za Avstralijo

Australian puolesta

För Australien

+++++ TIFF +++++

[1] ATS 1988 No 30 (without Annex); UNTS 1503 p. 168 (with Annex).

--------------------------------------------------

ANNEX I

Oenological practices as referred to in Article 5

PART A

For wines originating in Australia

1. List of oenological practices and processes authorised for wines originating in Australia, under conditions
laid down in Australian rules and in particular the Australian Wine and Brandy Corporation Act 1980, Trade
Practices Act 1974, and the Australia New Zealand Food Standards Code (unless otherwise stated in this
Annex), with the following prescriptions:

1. aeration or bubbling using argon, nitrogen or oxygen;

2. heat treatment;

3. use in dry wines, and in quantities not exceeding 5 %, of fresh lees which are sound and undiluted and
contain yeasts resulting from the recent vinification of dry wine;

4. centrifuging and filtration, with or without an inert filtering agent, on condition that no undesirable residue
is left in the products so treated;

5. use of yeasts for wine production;

6. use of carbon dioxide, argon or nitrogen, either alone or combined, solely in order to create an inert
atmosphere and to handle the product shielded from the air;

7. addition of cultures of micro organisms including yeast ghosts with or without one or more of the
following substances to encourage the growth of yeasts:

- diammonium phosphate or ammonium sulphate,

- ammonium sulphite or ammonium bisulphite,

- thiamin hydrochloride;

8. use of lactic acid bacteria in a vinous suspension;

9. addition of carbon dioxide, provided that the carbon dioxide content of wine so treated does not exceed
2 grams per litre;

Page22of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.10. use, under the conditions laid down in Community rules, of sulphur dioxide, potassium bisulphite or
potassium metabisulphite, which may also be called potassium disulphite or potassium pyrosulphite;

11. addition of sorbic acid or potassium sorbate provided that the final sorbic acid content of the treated
product on its release to the market for direct human consumption does not exceed 200 milligrams per litre;

12. addition of up to 300 milligrams per litre of L-ascorbic acid or erythorbic acid (iso-ascorbic acid);

13. addition of citric acid for wine stabilisation purposes, provided that the final content in the treated wine
does not exceed 1 gram per litre;

14. use of tartaric acid, lactic acid or malic acid for acidification purposes, provided that the initial acidity
content is not raised by more than 4,0 grams per litre expressed as tartaric acid;

15. clarification by means of one or more of the following substances for oenological use:

- edible gelatine,

- isinglass,

- casein and potassium caseinate,

- milk or evaporated milk,

- animal albumin,

- bentonite,

- silicon dioxide as a gel or colloidal solution,

- kaolin,

- tannin,

- pectolytic enzymes,

- enzymes approved for food usage;

16. addition of tannin;

17. treatment with charcoal for oenological use (activated carbon);

18. treatment:

- of white wines and rosé wines, with potassium ferrocyanide,

- of red wines with potassium ferrocyanide or with calcium phytate, provided that the wine so treated
contains residual iron;

19. addition of up to 100 milligrams per litre of metatartaric acid;

20. use, for the manufacture of sparkling wine obtained by fermentation in bottle and with the lees
separated by disgorging:

- of calcium alginate, or

- of potassium alginate;

21. addition of potassium bitartrate to assist the precipitation of tartar;

22. use of preparations of yeast cell wall, up to a maximum of 40 grams per hectolitre;

23. use of polyvinylpolypyrrolidone, provided that the wine so treated does not contain more than 100
milligrams per litre polyvinylpolypyrrolidone;

24. use of copper sulphate to eliminate defects of taste or smell in the wine, up to a maximum of 1 gram
per hectolitre, provided that the copper content of the wine so treated does not exceed 1 milligram per litre;

25. addition of caramel to reinforce the colour of liqueur wines;

Page23of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.26. addition of wine or dried grape distillate or of neutral alcohol of vinous origin for the manufacture of
liqueur wines;

27. addition of grape must and concentrated grape must for sweetening of wine;

28. use for deacidification purposes of calcium carbonate;

29. use of cation exchange resins for wine stabilisation purposes provided that the resins are sufficiently
stable not to transfer substances to the wine in quantities which could endanger human health [1];

30. use of pieces of oak;

31. use of spinning cone technology;

32. use of gum Arabic/Acacia;

33. use of calcium tartrate for deacidification purposes;

34. use of electro dialysis;

35. use of urease to reduce the urea content in the wine;

36. use of lysozyme;

37. use of reverse osmosis;

38. use of dimethyl dicarbonate;

39. use of hydrogen peroxide in grape juice, grape concentrate or grape must;

40. use of counter current extraction;

41. use of plant proteins;

42. use of copper citrate;

43. addition of grape spirit, brandy, and sugars to sparkling wine;

44. addition of mistelle.

2. New or modified oenological practices and processes mutually decided by the Contracting Parties or the
Joint Committee in accordance with the procedure set out in Articles 29 or 30.

PART B

For wines originating in the Community

1. List of oenological practices and processes authorised for wines originating in the Community, under
conditions laid down in Community rules and in particular of Council Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999, and
Commission Regulation (EC) No 1622/2000, (unless otherwise stated) with the following prescriptions:

1. aeration or bubbling using argon, nitrogen or oxygen;

2. heat treatment;

3. use in dry wines, and in quantities not exceeding 5 %, of fresh lees which are sound and undiluted and
contain yeasts resulting from the recent vinification of dry wine;

4. centrifuging and filtration, with or without an inert filtering agent, on condition that no undesirable residue
is left in the products so treated;

5. use of yeasts for wine production;

6. use of preparations of yeast cell wall, up to a maximum of 40 grams per hectolitre;

7. use of polyvinylpolypyrrolidone up to a maximum of 80 grams per hectolitre;

8. use of lactic acid bacteria in a vinous suspension;

9. addition of one or more of the following substances to encourage the growth of yeasts:

Page24of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.- addition of:

(i) diammonium phosphate or ammonium sulphate up to 0,3 grams per litre,

(ii) ammonium sulphite or ammonium bisulphite up to 0,2 grams per litre.

These products may also be used together up to a total of 0,3 grams per litre, without prejudice to the
abovementioned limit of 0,2 grams per litre:

- addition of thiamin hydrochloride up to 0,6 milligrams per litre expressed as thiamin;

10. use of carbon dioxide, argon or nitrogen, either alone or combined, solely in order to create an inert
atmosphere and to handle the product shielded from the air;

11. addition of carbon dioxide, provided that the carbon dioxide content of wine so treated does not exceed
2 grams per litre;

12. use, under the conditions laid down in Australian rules, of sulphur dioxide, potassium bisulphite or
potassium metabisulphite, which may also be called potassium disulphite or potassium pyrosulphite;

13. addition of sorbic acid or potassium sorbate provided that the final sorbic acid content of the treated
product on its release to the market for direct human consumption does not exceed 200 milligrams per litre;

14. addition of up to 250 milligrams per litre of L-ascorbic acid;

15. addition of citric acid for wine stabilisation purposes, provided that the final content in the treated wine
does not exceed 1 gram per litre;

16. use of tartaric acid for acidification purposes, provided that the initial acidity content of the wine is not
raised by more than 2,5 g/l expressed as tartaric acid;

17. use of one or more of the following substances for deacidification purposes:

- neutral potassium tartrate,

- potassium bicarbonate,

- calcium carbonate, which may contain small quantities of the double calcium salt of L (+) tartaric and L (-)
malic acids,

- calcium tartrate or tartaric acid,

- a homogenous preparation of tartaric acid and calcium carbonate in equivalent proportions and finely
pulverised;

18. clarification by means of one or more of the following substances for oenological use:

- edible gelatine,

- plant proteins,

- isinglass,

- casein and potassium caseinate,

- egg albumin, milk albumin,

- bentonite,

- silicon dioxide as a gel or colloidal solution,

- kaolin,

- tannin,

- pectolytic enzymes,

- enzymatic preparations of betaglucanase;

19. addition of tannin;

Page25of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.20. treatment with charcoal for oenological use (activated carbon) up to a maximum of 100 grams of dry
product per hectolitre;

21. treatment:

- of white wines and rosé wines, with potassium ferrocyanide,

- of red wines, with potassium ferrocyanide or with calcium phytate, provided that the wine so treated
contains residual iron;

22. addition of up to 100 milligrams per litre of metatartaric acid;

23. use of acacia after completion of fermentation;

24. use of DL-tartaric acid, also called racemic acid, or of its neutral salt of potassium for precipitating
excess calcium;

25. use for the manufacture of sparkling wines obtained by fermentation in bottle and with the lees
separated by disgorging:

- of calcium alginate, or

- of potassium alginate;

26. use of copper sulphate to eliminate defects of taste or smell in the wine, up to a maximum of 1 gram
per hectolitre, provided that the copper content of the wine so treated does not exceed 1 milligram per litre;

27. addition of potassium bitartrate or calcium tartrate to assist the precipitation of tartar;

28. use of Aleppo pine resin only for the purpose of obtaining a "retsina" wine which may be produced only
in Greece;

29. addition of caramel to reinforce the colour of liqueur wines;

30. use of calcium sulphate for the production of certain liqueur wines psr, provided that the sulphate
content of the wine so treated does not exceed 2,5 grams per litre expressed as potassium sulphate;

31. addition of wine or dried grape distillate or of neutral alcohol of vinous origin for the production of
liqueur wines;

32. addition of sucrose, concentrated grape must or rectified concentrated grape must to increase the
natural alcoholic strength of grapes, grape must or wine;

33. addition of grape must or rectified concentrated grape must for sweetening of wine;

34. electro dialysis to guarantee tartaric stabilisation of the wine;

35. use of urease to reduce the urea content in the wine;

36. addition of lysozyme;

37. partial concentration by physical process, including reverse osmosis, to increase the natural alcoholic
strength of grape must or wine;

38. addition of dimethyldicarbonate (DMDC) to wine for microbiological stabilisation;

39. use of pieces of oak wood in winemaking.

2. New or modified oenological practices and processes mutually decided by the Contracting Parties or the
Joint Committee in accordance with the procedure set out in Articles 29 or 30.

PART C

Technical adaptations of oenological practices and process, as referred to in Article 6(7)

For the Community, oenological practices and processes as set out in Annex I, Part B:

16. use of tartaric acid for acidification purposes, provided that the initial acidity content of the wine is not
raised by more than 2,5 g/l expressed as tartaric acid;

Page26of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.32. addition of sucrose, concentrated grape must or rectified concentrated grape must to increase the
natural alcoholic strength of grapes, grape must or wine;

37. partial concentration by physical process, including reverse osmosis, to increase the natural alcoholic
strength of grape must or wine.

For Australia, oenological practices and processes as set out in Annex I, Part A:

Nil

[1] This oenological practice is authorised from 1 March 1994.

--------------------------------------------------

ANNEX II

Geographical indications as referred to in Article 12

The geographical indications covered by this Agreement are the following:

PART A.

WINES ORIGINATING IN THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITY

1. Geographical indications of the Member States:

Austria

1. Quality wines produced in a specified region

Specified regions |

Burgenland Carnuntum Donauland Kamptal Kärnten Kremstal Mittelburgenland Neusiedlersee
Neusiedlersee-Hügelland Niederösterreich Oberösterreich Salzburg Steiermark Südburgenland
Süd-Oststeiermark Südsteiermark Thermenregion Tirol Traisental Vorarlberg Wachau Weinviertel
Weststeiermark Wien |

2. Table wines with a geographical indication

Bergland Steirerland Weinland Wien |

Belgium

1. Quality wines produced in a specified region

Specified regions |

Côtes de Sambre et Meuse Hagelandse Wijn Haspengouwse Wijn Heuvellandse wijn Vlaamse
mousserende kwaliteitswijn |

2. Table wines with a geographical indication

Vin de pays des jardins de Wallonie Vlaamse landwijn |

Bulgaria

1. Quality wines produced in a specified region

Specified regions |

Асеновград (Asenovgrad) Черноморски район (Black Sea Region) Брестник (Brestnik) Драгоево
(Dragoevo) Евксиноград (Evksinograd) Хан Крум (Han Krum) Хърсово (Harsovo) Хасково (Haskovo)
Хисаря (Hisarya) Ивайловград (Ivaylovgrad) Карлово (Karlovo) Карнобат (Karnobat) Ловеч (Lovech)
Лозица (Lozitsa) Лом (Lom) Любимец (Lyubimets) Лясковец (Lyaskovets) Мелник (Melnik) Монтана
(Montana) Нова Загора (Nova Zagora) Нови Пазар (Novi Pazar) Ново село (Novo Selo) Оряховица
(Oryahovitsa) Павликени (Pavlikeni) Пазарджик (Pazardjik) Перущица (Perushtitsa) | Плевен (Pleven)
Пловдив (Plovdiv) Поморие (Pomorie) Русе (Ruse) Сакар (Sakar) Сандански (Sandanski) Септември
(Septemvri) Шивачево (Shivachevo) Шумен (Shumen) Славянци (Slavyantsi) Сливен (Sliven) Южно
Черноморие (Southern Black Sea Coast) Стамболово (Stambolovo) Стара Загора (Stara Zagora)
Сухиндол (Suhindol) Сунгурларе (Sungurlare) Свищов (Svishtov) Долината на Струма (Struma valley)

Page27of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Търговище (Targovishte) Върбица (Varbitsa) Варна (Varna) Велики Преслав (Veliki Preslav) Видин
(Vidin) Враца (Vratsa) Ямбол (Yambol) |

2. Table wines with a geographical indication

Дунавска равнина (Danube Plain) Тракийска низина (Thracian Lowlands) |

Cyprus

1. Quality wines produced in a specified region

In Greek | In English |

Specified regions | Sub-regions (whether or not preceded by the name of the specified region) | Specified
regions | Sub-regions (whether or not preceded by the name of the specified region) |

Κουμανδαρία | | Commandaria | |

Λαόνα Ακάμα | | Laona Akama | |

Βουνί Παναγιάς — | | Vouni Panayia — | |

Αμπελίτης | | Ambelitis | |

Πιτσιλιά | Αφάμης or | Pitsilia | Afames or |

Κρασοχώρια Λεμεσού | Λαόνα | Krasohoria Lemesou | Laona |

2. Table wines with a geographical indication

In Greek | In English |

Λεμεσός | Lemesos |

Πάφος | Pafos |

Λευκωσία | Lefkosia |

Λάρνακα | Larnaka |

Czech republic

1. Quality wines produced in a specified region

Specified regions (whether or not followed by the name of the sub-region) | Sub-regions followed or not by
either the name of a wine-growing commune and/or the name of a vineyard estate |

Čechy | litoměřická |

| mělnická |

Morava | mikulovská |

| slovácká |

| velkopavlovická |

| znojemská |

2. Table wines with a geographical indication

české zemské víno moravské zemské víno |

France

1. Quality wines produced in a specified region

Specified regions |

Alsace Grand Cru, followed by the name of a smaller geographical unit Alsace, whether or not followed by
the name of a smaller geographical unit Alsace or Vin d'Alsace, whether or not followed by "Edelzwicker" or

Page28of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.the name of a vine variety or the name of a smaller geographical unit Ajaccio Aloxe-Corton Anjou, whether
or not followed by Val de Loire or Coteaux de la Loire, or Villages Brissac Anjou, whether or not followed
by"Gamay", "Mousseux"or"Villages" Arbois Arbois Pupillin Auxey-Duresses or Auxey-Duresses Côte de
Beaune or Auxey-Duresses Côte de Beaune-Villages Bandol Banyuls Barsac Bâtard-Montrachet Béarn or
Béarn Bellocq Beaujolais Supérieur Beaujolais, whether of not followed by the name of a smaller
geographical unit Beaujolais-Villages Beaumes-de-Venise whether or not preceded by"Muscat de" Beaune
Bellet or Vin de Bellet Bergerac Bienvenues Bâtard-Montrachet Blagny Blanc Fumé de Pouilly Blanquette
de Limoux Blaye Bonnes Mares Bonnezeaux Bordeaux Côtes de Francs Bordeaux Haut-Benauge
Bordeaux, whether or not followed or not by"Clairet"or"Supérieur"or"Rosé"or"mousseux" Bourg Bourgeais
Bourgogne, whether or not followed by"Clairet"or"Rosé"or the name of a smaller geographical unit
Bourgogne Aligoté Bourgueil Bouzeron Brouilly Buzet Cabardès Cabernet d'Anjou Cabernet de Saumur
Cadillac Cahors Canon-Fronsac Cap Corse, preceded by "Muscat du" Cassis Cérons Chablis Grand Cru,
whether or not followed by the name of a smaller geographical unit Chablis, whether or not followed by the
name of a smaller geographical unit Chambertin Chambertin Clos de Bèze Chambolle-Musigny
Champagne Chapelle-Chambertin Charlemagne Charmes-Chambertin Chassagne-Montrachet or
Chassagne-Montrachet Côte de Beaune or Chassagne-Montrachet Côte de Beaune-Villages Château
Châlon Château Grillet Châteaumeillant Châteauneuf-du-Pape Châtillon-en-Diois Chenas
Chevalier-Montrachet Cheverny Chinon Chiroubles Chorey-lés-Beaune or Chorey-lès-Beaune Côte de
Beaune or Chorey-lès-Beaune Côte de Beaune-Villages Clairette de Bellegarde Clairette de Die Clairette
du Languedoc, whether or not followed by the name of a smaller geographical unit Clos de la Roche Clos
de Tart Clos des Lambrays Clos Saint-Denis Clos Vougeot Collioure Condrieu Corbières, whether or not
followed by Boutenac Cornas Corton Corton-Charlemagne Costières de Nîmes Côte de Beaune, whether
or not followed by the name of a smaller geographical unit Côte de Beaune-Villages Côte de Brouilly Côte
de Nuits Côte Roannaise Côte Rôtie Coteaux Champenois, whether or not followed by the name of a
smaller geographical unit Coteaux d'Aix-en-Provence Coteaux d'Ancenis, whether or not followed by the
name of a vine variety Coteaux de Die Coteaux de l'Aubance Coteaux de Pierrevert Coteaux de Saumur
Coteaux du Giennois Coteaux du Languedoc Picpoul de Pinet Coteaux du Languedoc, whether or not
followed by the name of a smaller geographical unit Coteaux du Layon or Coteaux du Layon Chaume
Coteaux du Layon, whether or not followed by the name of a smaller geographical unit Coteaux du Loir
Coteaux du Lyonnais Coteaux du Quercy Coteaux du Tricastin Coteaux du Vendômois Coteaux Varois
Côte-de-Nuits-Villages Côtes Canon-Fronsac Côtes d'Auvergne, whether or not followed by the name of a
smaller geographical unit Côtes de Beaune, whether or not followed by the name of a smaller geogrpahical
unit Côtes de Bergerac Côtes de Blaye Côtes de Bordeaux Saint-Macaire Côtes de Bourg Côtes de
Brulhois Côtes de Castillon Côtes de Duras Côtes de la Malepère Côtes de Millau Côtes de Montravel
Côtes de Provence, whether or not followed by Sainte Victoire Côtes de Saint-Mont Côtes de Toul Côtes
du Frontonnais, whether or not followed by Fronton or Villaudric Côtes du Jura Côtes du Lubéron Côtes du
Marmandais Côtes du Rhône Côtes du Rhône Villages, whether or not followed by the name of a smaller
geographical unit Côtes du Roussillon Côtes du Roussillon Villages, whether or not followed by the
following communes Caramany or Latour de France or Lesquerde or Tautavel Côtes du Ventoux Côtes du
Vivarais Cour-Cheverny Crémant d'Alsace Crémant de Bordeaux Crémant de Bourgogne Crémant de Die
Crémant de Limoux Crémant de Loire Crémant du Jura Crépy Criots Bâtard-Montrachet Crozes Ermitage
Crozes-Hermitage Echezeaux Entre-Deux-Mers or Entre-Deux-Mers Haut-Benauge Ermitage Faugères
Fiefs Vendéens, whether or not followed by Mareuil or Brem or Vix or Pissotte Fitou Fixin Fleurie Floc de
Gascogne Fronsac Frontignan Gaillac Gaillac Premières Côtes Gevrey-Chambertin Gigondas Givry Grand
Roussillon Grands Echezeaux Graves Graves de Vayres Griotte-Chambertin Gros Plant du Pays Nantais
Haut Poitou Haut-Médoc Haut-Montravel Hermitage Irancy Irouléguy Jasnières Juliénas Jurançon L'Etoile,
whether or not followed by "mousseux" La Grande Rue Ladoix or Ladoix Côte de Beaune or Ladoix Côte
de Beaune-Villages Lalande de Pomerol Languedoc, whether or not followed by the name of a smaller
geographical unit Latricières-Chambertin Les-Baux-de-Provence Limoux Lirac Listrac-Médoc Loupiac
Lunel, whether or not preceded by"Muscat de" Lussac Saint-Émilion Mâcon or Pinot-Chardonnay-Macôn
Mâcon, whether or not followed by the name of a smaller geographical unit Mâcon-Villages Macvin du Jura
Madiran Maranges Côte de Beaune or Maranges Côtes de Beaune-Villages Maranges, whether or not
followed by the name of a smaller geographical unit Marcillac Margaux Marsannay Maury
Mazis-Chambertin Mazoyères-Chambertin Médoc Menetou Salon, whether or not followed by the name of
a smaller geographical unit Mercurey Meursault or Meursault Côte de Beaune or Meursault Côte de
Beaune-Villages Minervois Minervois-la-Livinière Mireval Monbazillac Montagne Saint-Émilion Montagny
Monthélie or Monthélie Côte de Beaune or Monthélie Côte de Beaune-Villages Montlouis, whether or not
followed by "mousseux" or "pétillant" Montrachet Montravel Morey-Saint-Denis Morgon Moselle
Moulin-à-Vent Moulis Moulis-en-Médoc Muscadet Muscadet Coteaux de la Loire Muscadet Côtes de
Grandlieu Muscadet Sèvre-et-Maine Musigny Néac Nuits Nuits-Saint-Georges Orléans Orléans-Cléry
Pacherenc du Vic-Bilh Palette Patrimonio Pauillac Pécharmant Pernand-Vergelesses or
Pernand-Vergelesses Côte de Beaune or Pernand-Vergelesses Côte de Beaune-Villages Pessac-Léognan
Petit Chablis, whether or not followed by the name of a smaller geographical unit Pineau des Charentes
Pinot-Chardonnay-Macôn Pomerol Pommard Pouilly Fumé Pouilly-Fuissé Pouilly-Loché Pouilly-sur-Loire
Pouilly-Vinzelles Premières Côtes de Blaye Premières Côtes de Bordeaux, whether or not followed by the
name of a smaller geographical unit Puisseguin Saint-Émilion Puligny-Montrachet or Puligny-Montrachet

Page29of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Côte de Beaune or Puligny-Montrachet Côte de Beaune-Villages Quarts-de-Chaume Quincy Rasteau
Rasteau Rancio Régnié Reuilly Richebourg Rivesaltes, whether or not preceded by"Muscat de" Rivesaltes
Rancio Romanée (La) Romanée Conti Romanée Saint-Vivant Rosé des Riceys Rosette Roussette de
Savoie, whether or not followed by the name of a smaller geographical unit Roussette du Bugey, whether
or not followed by the name of a smaller geographical unit Ruchottes-Chambertin Rully Saint Julien
Saint-Amour Saint-Aubin or Saint-Aubin Côte de Beaune, or Saint-Aubin Côte de Beaune-Villages
Saint-Bris Saint-Chinian Sainte-Croix-du-Mont Sainte-Foy Bordeaux Saint-Émilion Saint-Emilion Grand
Cru Saint-Estèphe Saint-Georges Saint-Émilion Saint-Jean-de-Minervois, whether or not preceded
by"Muscat de" Saint-Joseph Saint-Nicolas-de-Bourgueil Saint-Péray Saint-Pourçain Saint-Romain or
Saint-Romain Côte de Beaune or Saint-Romain Côte de Beaune-Villages Saint-Véran Sancerre Santenay
or Santenay Côte de Beaune, or Santenay Côte de Beaune-Villages Saumur Champigny Saussignac
Sauternes Savennières Savennières-Coulée-de-Serrant Savennières-Roche-aux-Moines Savigny or
Savigny-lès-Beaune Seyssel Tâche (La) Tavel Thouarsais Touraine Amboise Touraine Azay-le-Rideau
Touraine Mesland Touraine Noble Joue Touraine, whether or followed by"mousseux"or"pétillant" Tursan
Vacqueyras Valençay Vin d'Entraygues et du Fel Vin d'Estaing Vin de Corse, whether or not followed by
the name of a smaller geographical unit Vin de Lavilledieu Vin de Savoie or Vin de Savoie-Ayze, whether
or not followed by the name of a smaller geographical unit Vin du Bugey, whether or not followed by the
name of a smaller geographical unit Vin Fin de la Côte de Nuits Viré Clessé Volnay Volnay Santenots
Vosne-Romanée Vougeot Vouvray, whether or not followed by"mousseux"or"pétillant" |

2. Table wines with a geographical indication

Vin de pays de l'Agenais Vin de pays d'Aigues Vin de pays de l'Ain Vin de pays de l'Allier Vin de pays
d'Allobrogie Vin de pays des Alpes de Haute-Provence Vin de pays des Alpes Maritimes Vin de pays de
l'Ardèche Vin de pays d'Argens Vin de pays de l'Ariège Vin de pays de l'Aude Vin de pays de l'Aveyron Vin
de pays des Balmes dauphinoises Vin de pays de la Bénovie Vin de pays du Bérange Vin de pays de
Bessan Vin de pays de Bigorre Vin de pays des Bouches du Rhône Vin de pays du Bourbonnais Vin de
pays du Calvados Vin de pays de Cassan Vin de pays Cathare Vin de pays de Caux Vin de pays de
Cessenon Vin de pays des Cévennes, whether or not followed by Mont Bouquet Vin de pays Charentais,
whether or not followed by Ile de Ré or Ile d'Oléron or Saint-Sornin Vin de pays de la Charente Vin de pays
des Charentes-Maritimes Vin de pays du Cher Vin de pays de la Cité de Carcassonne Vin de pays des
Collines de la Moure Vin de pays des Collines rhodaniennes Vin de pays du Comté de Grignan Vin de
pays du Comté tolosan Vin de pays des Comtés rhodaniens Vin de pays de la Corrèze Vin de pays de la
Côte Vermeille Vin de pays des coteaux charitois Vin de pays des coteaux d'Enserune Vin de pays des
coteaux de Besilles Vin de pays des coteaux de Cèze Vin de pays des coteaux de Coiffy Vin de pays des
coteaux Flaviens Vin de pays des coteaux de Fontcaude Vin de pays des coteaux de Glanes Vin de pays
des coteaux de l'Ardèche Vin de pays des coteaux de l'Auxois Vin de pays des coteaux de la Cabrerisse
Vin de pays des coteaux de Laurens Vin de pays des coteaux de Miramont Vin de pays des coteaux de
Montélimar Vin de pays des coteaux de Murviel Vin de pays des coteaux de Narbonne Vin de pays des
coteaux de Peyriac Vin de pays des coteaux des Baronnies Vin de pays des coteaux du Cher et de l'Arnon
Vin de pays des coteaux du Grésivaudan Vin de pays des coteaux du Libron Vin de pays des coteaux du
Littoral Audois Vin de pays des coteaux du Pont du Gard Vin de pays des coteaux du Salagou Vin de pays
des coteaux de Tannay Vin de pays des coteaux du Verdon Vin de pays des coteaux et terrasses de
Montauban Vin de pays des côtes catalanes Vin de pays des côtes de Gascogne Vin de pays des côtes de
Lastours Vin de pays des côtes de Montestruc Vin de pays des côtes de Pérignan Vin de pays des côtes
de Prouilhe Vin de pays des côtes de Thau Vin de pays des côtes de Thongue Vin de pays des côtes du
Brian Vin de pays des côtes de Ceressou Vin de pays des côtes du Condomois Vin de pays des côtes du
Tarn Vin de pays des côtes du Vidourle Vin de pays de la Creuse Vin de pays de Cucugnan Vin de pays
des Deux-Sèvres Vin de pays de la Dordogne Vin de pays du Doubs Vin de pays de la Drôme Vin de pays
Duché d'Uzès Vin de pays de Franche-Comté, whether or not followed by Coteaux de Champlitte Vin de
pays du Gard Vin de pays du Gers Vin de pays des Hautes-Alpes Vin de pays de la Haute-Garonne Vin de
pays de la Haute-Marne Vin de pays des Hautes-Pyrénées Vin de pays d'Hauterive, whether or not
followed by Val d'Orbieu or Coteaux du Termenès or Côtes de Lézignan Vin de pays de la Haute-Saône
Vin de pays de la Haute-Vienne Vin de pays de la Haute vallée de l'Aude Vin de pays de la Haute vallée
de l'Orb Vin de pays des Hauts de Badens Vin de pays de l'Hérault Vin de pays de l'Ile de Beauté Vin de
pays de l'Indre et Loire Vin de pays de l'Indre Vin de pays de l'Isère Vin de pays du Jardin de la France,
whether or not followed by Marches de Bretagne or Pays de Retz Vin de pays des Landes Vin de pays de
Loire-Atlantique Vin de pays du Loir et Cher Vin de pays du Loiret Vin de pays du Lot Vin de pays du Lot et
Garonne Vin de pays des Maures Vin de pays de Maine et Loire Vin de pays de la Mayenne Vin de pays
de Meurthe-et-Moselle Vin de pays de la Meuse Vin de pays du Mont Baudile Vin de pays du Mont Caume
Vin de pays des Monts de la Grage Vin de pays de la Nièvre Vin de pays d'Oc Vin de pays du Périgord,
followed or not by Vin de Domme Vin de pays de la Petite Crau Vin de pays des Portes de Méditerranée
Vin de pays de la Principauté d'Orange Vin de pays du Puy de Dôme Vin de pays des
Pyrénées-Atlantiques Vin de pays des Pyrénées-Orientales Vin de pays des Sables du Golfe du Lion Vin
de pays de la Sainte Baume Vin de pays de Saint Guilhem-le-Désert Vin de pays de Saint-Sardos Vin de
pays de Sainte Marie la Blanche Vin de pays de Saône et Loire Vin de pays de la Sarthe Vin de pays de

Page30of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Seine et Marne Vin de pays du Tarn Vin de pays du Tarn et Garonne Vin de pays des Terroirs landais,
whether or not followed by Coteaux de Chalosse or Côtes de L'Adour or Sables Fauves or Sables de
l'Océan Vin de pays de Thézac-Perricard Vin de pays du Torgan Vin de pays d'Urfé Vin de pays du Val de
Cesse Vin de pays du Val de Dagne Vin de pays du Val de Montferrand Vin de pays de la Vallée du
Paradis Vin de pays du Var Vin de pays du Vaucluse Vin de pays de la Vaunage Vin de pays de la Vendée
Vin de pays de la Vicomté d'Aumelas Vin de pays de la Vienne Vin de pays de la Vistrenque Vin de pays
de l'Yonne |

Germany

1. Quality wines produced in a specified region

Specified regions (whether or not followed by the name of a sub-region) | Sub-regions |

Ahr | Walporzheim or Ahrtal |

Baden | Badische Bergstraße |

| Bodensee |

| Breisgau |

| Kaiserstuhl |

| Kraichgau |

| Markgräflerland |

| Ortenau |

| Tauberfranken |

| Tuniberg |

Franken | Maindreieck |

| Mainviereck |

| Steigerwald |

Hessische Bergstraße | Starkenburg |

| Umstadt |

Mittelrhein | Loreley |

| Siebengebirge |

Mosel-Saar-Ruwer or Mosel or Saar or Ruwer | Bernkastel |

| Burg Cochem |

| Moseltor |

| Obermosel |

| Saar |

| Ruwertal |

Nahe | Nahetal |

Pfalz | Mittelhaardt/Deutsche Weinstraße (Weinstrasse) |

| Südliche Weinstraße (Weinstrasse) |

Rheingau | Johannisberg |

Rheinhessen | Bingen |

| Nierstein |

Page31of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.| Wonnegau |

Saale-Unstrut | Mansfelder Seen |

| Schloß Neuenburg |

| Thüringen |

Sachsen | Elstertal |

| Meißen |

Württemberg | Bayerischer Bodensee |

| Kocher-Jagst-Tauber |

| Oberer Neckar |

| Remstal-Stuttgart |

| Württembergisch Unterland |

| Württembergischer Bodensee |

2. Table wines with a geographical indication

Landwein | Tafelwein |

Ahrtaler Landwein Badischer Landwein Bayerischer Bodensee-Landwein Landwein Main Landwein der
Mosel Landwein der Ruwer Landwein der Saar Mecklenburger Landwein Mitteldeutscher Landwein
Nahegauer Landwein Pfälzer Landwein Regensburger Landwein Rheinburgen-Landwein Rheingauer
Landwein Rheinischer Landwein Saarländischer Landwein der Mosel Sächsischer Landwein Schwäbischer
Landwein Starkenburger Landwein Taubertäler Landwein | Albrechtsburg Bayern Burgengau Donau
Lindau Main Mosel Neckar Oberrhein Rhein Rhein-Mosel Römertor Stargarder Land |

Greece

1. Quality wines produced in a specified region

Specified regions |

In Greek | In English |

Σάμος | Samos |

Μοσχάτος Πατρών | Moschatos Patra |

Μοσχάτος Ρίου — Πατρών | Moschatos Riou Patra |

Μοσχάτος Κεφαλληνίας | Moschatos Kephalinia |

Μοσχάτος Λήμνου | Moschatos Lemnos |

Μοσχάτος Ρόδου | Moschatos Rhodos |

Μαυροδάφνη Πατρών | Mavrodafni Patra |

Μαυροδάφνη Κεφαλληνίας | Mavrodafni Kephalinia |

Σητεία | Sitia |

Νεμέα | Nemea |

Σαντορίνη | Santorini |

Δαφνές | Dafnes |

Ρόδος | Rhodos |

Νάουσα | Naoussa |

Page32of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Ρομπόλα Κεφαλληνίας | Robola Kephalinia |

Ραψάνη | Rapsani |

Μαντινεία | Mantinia |

Μεσενικόλα | Mesenicola |

Πεζά | Peza |

Αρχάνες | Archanes |

Πάτρα | Patra |

Ζίτσα | Zitsa |

Αμύνταιο | Amynteon |

Γουμένισσα | Goumenissa |

Πάρος | Paros |

Λήμνος | Lemnos |

Αγχίαλος | Anchialos |

Πλαγιές Μελίτωνα | Slopes of Melitona |

2. Table wines with a geographical indication

In Greek | In English |

Ρετσίνα Μεσογείων, whether or not followed by Αττικής | Retsina of Mesogia, whether or not followed by
Attika |

Ρετσίνα Κρωπίας or Ρετσίνα Κορωπίου, whether or not followed by Αττικής | Retsina of Kropia or Retsina
Koropi, whether or not followed by Attika |

Ρετσίνα Μαρκοπούλου, whether or not followed by Αττικής | Retsina of Markopoulou, whether or not
followed by Attika |

Ρετσίνα Μεγάρων, whether or not followed by Αττικής | Retsina of Megara, whether or not followed by
Attika |

Ρετσίνα Παιανίας or Ρετσίνα Λιοπεσίου, whether or not followed by Αττικής | Retsina of Peania or Retsina
of Liopesi, whether or not followed by Attika |

Ρετσίνα Παλλήνης, whether or not followed by Αττικής | Retsina of Pallini, whether or not followed by Attika
|

Ρετσίνα Πικερμίου, whether or not followed by Αττικής | Retsina of Pikermi, whether or not followed by
Attika |

Ρετσίνα Σπάτων, whether or not followed by Αττικής | Retsina of Spata, whether or not followed by Attika |

Ρετσίνα Θηβών, whether or not followed by Βοιωτίας | Retsina of Thebes, whether or not followed by
Viotias |

Ρετσίνα Γιάλτρων, whether or not followed by Ευβοίας | Retsina of Gialtra, whether or not followed by Evvia
|

Ρετσίνα Καρύστου, whether or not followed by Ευβοίας | Retsina of Karystos, whether or not followed by
Evvia |

Ρετσίνα Χαλκίδας, whether or not followed by Ευβοίας | Retsina of Halkida, whether or not followed by
Evvia |

Βερντεα Ζακύνθου | Verntea Zakynthou |

Αγιορείτικος Τοπικός Οίνος | Regional wine of Mount Athos Agioritikos |

Page33of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Τοπικός Οίνος Αναβύσσου | Regional wine of Anavyssos |

Αττικός Τοπικός Οίνος | Regional wine of Attiki — Attikos |

Τοπικός Οίνος Βιλίτσας | Regional wine of Vilitsas |

Τοπικός Οίνος Γρεβενών | Regional wine of Grevena |

Τοπικός Οίνος Δράμας | Regional wine of Drama |

Δωδεκανησιακός Τοπικός Οίνος | Regional wine of Dodekanese — Dodekanissiakos |

Τοπικός Οίνος Επανομής | Regional wine of Epanomi |

Ηρακλειώτικος Τοπικός Οίνος | Regional wine of Heraklion — Herakliotikos |

Θεσσαλικός Τοπικός Οίνος | Regional wine of Thessalia — Thessalikos |

Θηβαϊκός Τοπικός Οίνος | Regional wine of Thebes — Thivaikos |

Τοπικός Οίνος Κισσάμου | Regional wine of Kissamos |

Τοπικός Οίνος Κρανιάς | Regional wine of Krania |

Κρητικός Τοπικός Οίνος | Regional wine of Crete — Kritikos |

Λασιθιώτικος Τοπικός Οίνος | Regional wine of Lasithi — Lassithiotikos |

Μακεδονικός Τοπικός Οίνος | Regional wine of Macedonia — Macedonikos |

Μεσημβριώτικος Τοπικός Οίνος | Regional wine of Nea Messimvria |

Μεσσηνιακός Τοπικός Οίνος | Regional wine of Messinia — Messiniakos |

Παιανίτικος Τοπικός Οίνος | Regional wine of Peanea |

Παλληνιώτικος Τοπικός Οίνος | Regional wine of Pallini — Palliniotikos |

Πελοποννησιακός Τοπικός Οίνος | Regional wine of Peloponnese — Peloponnisiakos |

Τοπικός Οίνος Πλαγιές Αμπέλου | Regional wine of Slopes of Ambelos |

Τοπικός Οίνος Πλαγιές Βερτίσκου | Regional wine of Slopes of Vertiskos Regional |

Τοπικός Οίνος Πλαγιών Κιθαιρώνα | wine of Slopes of Kitherona |

Κορινθιακός Τοπικός Οίνος | Regional wine of Korinthos — Korinthiakos |

Τοπικός Οίνος Πλαγιών Πάρνηθας | Regional wine of Slopes of Parnitha |

Τοπικός Οίνος Πυλίας | Regional wine of Pylia |

Τοπικός Οίνος Τριφυλίας | Regional wine of Trifilia |

Τοπικός Οίνος Τυρνάβου | Regional wine of Tyrnavos |

Σιατιστινός Τοπικός Οίνος | Regional wine of Siastista |

Τοπικός Οίνος Ριτσώνας Αυλίδος | Regional wine of Ritsona Avlidas |

Τοπικός Οίνος Λετρίνων | Regional wine of Letrines |

Τοπικός Οίνος Σπάτων | Regional wine of Spata |

Τοπικός Οίνος Βορείων Πλαγιών Πεντελικού | Regional wine of Slopes of Penteliko |

Αιγαιοπελαγίτικος Τοπικός Οίνος | Regional wine of Aegean Sea |

Τοπικός Οίνος Ληλάντιου πεδίου | Regional wine of Lilantio Pedio |

Τοπικός Οίνος Μαρκόπουλου | Regional wine of Markopoulo |

Page34of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Τοπικός Οίνος Τεγέας | Regional wine of Tegea |

Τοπικός Οίνος Ανδριανής | Regional wine of Adriana |

Τοπικός Οίνος Χαλικούνας | Regional wine of Halikouna |

Τοπικός Οίνος Χαλκιδικής | Regional wine of Halkidiki |

Καρυστινός Τοπικός Οίνος | Regional wine of Karystos — Karystinos |

Τοπικός Οίνος Πέλλας | Regional wine of Pella |

Τοπικός Οίνος Σερρών | Regional wine of Serres |

Συριανός Τοπικός Οίνος | Regional wine of Syros — Syrianos |

Τοπικός Οίνος Πλαγιών Πετρωτού | Regional wine of Slopes of Petroto |

Τοπικός Οίνος Γερανείων | Regional wine of Gerania |

Τοπικός Οίνος Οπουντίας Λοκρίδος | Regional wine of Opountias Lokridos |

Τοπικός Οίνος Στερεάς Ελλάδος | Regional wine of Sterea Ellada |

Τοπικός Οίνος Αγοράς | Regional wine of Agora |

Τοπικός Οίνος Κοιλάδος Αταλάντης | Regional wine of Valley of Atalanti |

Τοπικός Οίνος Αρκαδίας | Regional wine of Arkadia |

Παγγαιορείτικος Τοπικός Οίνος | Regional wine of Pangeon — Pangeoritikos |

Τοπικός Οίνος Μεταξάτων | Regional wine of Metaxata |

Τοπικός Οίνος Ημαθίας | Regional wine of Imathia |

Τοπικός Οίνος Κλημέντι | Regional wine of Klimenti |

Τοπικός Οίνος Κέρκυρας | Regional wine of Corfu |

Τοπικός Οίνος Σιθωνίας | Regional wine of Sithonia |

Τοπικός Οίνος Μαντζαβινάτων | Regional wine of Mantzavinata |

Ισμαρικός Τοπικός Οίνος | Regional wine of Ismaros — Ismarikos |

Τοπικός Οίνος Αβδήρων | Regional wine of Avdira |

Τοπικός Οίνος Ιωαννίνων | Regional wine of Ioannina |

Τοπικός Οίνος Πλαγιές Αιγιαλείας | Regional wine of Slopes of Egialia |

Τοπικός Οίνος Πλαγιές του Αίνου | Regional wine of Slopes of Enos |

Θρακικός Τοπικός Οίνος or Τοπικός Οίνος Θράκης | Regional wine of Thrace — Thrakikos or Regional
wine of Thrakis |

Τοπικός Οίνος Ιλίου | Regional wine of Ilion |

Μετσοβίτικος Τοπικός Οίνος | Regional wine of Metsovo — Metsovitikos |

Τοπικός Οίνος Κορωπίου | Regional wine of Koropi |

Τοπικός Οίνος Φλώρινας | Regional wine of Florina |

Τοπικός Οίνος Θαψανών | Regional wine of Thapsana |

Τοπικός Οίνος Πλαγιών Κνημίδος | Regional wine of Slopes of Knimida |

Ηπειρωτικός Τοπικός Οίνος | Regional wine of Epirus — Epirotikos |

Τοπικός Οίνος Πισάτιδος | Regional wine of Pisatis |

Page35of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Τοπικός Οίνος Λευκάδας | Regional wine of Lefkada |

Μονεμβάσιος Τοπικός Οίνος | Regional wine of Monemvasia — Monemvasios |

Τοπικός Οίνος Βελβεντού | Regional wine of Velvendos |

Λακωνικός Τοπικός Οίνος | Regional wine of Lakonia — Lakonikos |

Τοπικός Οίνος Μαρτίνου | Regional wine of Martino |

Αχαϊκός Τοπικός Οίνος | Regional wine of Achaia |

Τοπικός Οίνος Ηλιείας | Regional wine of Ilia |

Τοπικός Οίνος Θεσσαλονίκης | Regional wine of Thessaloniki |

Τοπικός Οίνος Κραννώνος | Regional wine of Krannona |

Τοπικός Οίνος Παρνασσού | Regional wine of Parnassos |

Τοπικός Οίνος Μετεώρων | Regional wine of Meteora |

Τοπικός Οίνος Ικαρίας | Regional wine of Ikaria |

Τοπικός Οίνος Καστοριάς | Regional wine of Kastoria |

Hungary

1. Quality wines produced in a specified region

Specified regions | Sub-regions (whether or not preceded by the name of the specified region) |

Ászár-Neszmély(-i) | Ászár(-i) |

| Neszmély(-i) |

Badacsony(-i) | |

Balatonboglár(-i) | Balatonlelle(-i) |

| Marcali |

Balatonfelvidék(-i) | Balatonederics-Lesence(-i) |

| Cserszeg(-i) |

| Kál(-i) |

Balatonfüred-Csopak(-i) | Zánka(-i) |

Balatonmelléke or Balatonmelléki | Muravidéki |

Bükkalja(-i) | |

Csongrád(-i) | Kistelek(-i) |

| Mórahalom or Mórahalmi |

| Pusztamérges(-i) |

Eger or Egri | Debrő(-i), followed or not by Andornaktálya(-i) or Demjén(-i) or Egerbakta(-i) or Egerszalók(-i)
or Egerszólát(-i) or Felsőtárkány(-i) or Kerecsend(-i) or Maklár(-i) or Nagytálya(-i) or Noszvaj(-i) or Novaj(-i)
or Ostoros(-i) or Szomolya(-i) or Aldebrő(-i) or Feldebrő(-i) or Tófalu(-i) or Verpelét(-i) or Kompolt(-i) or
Tarnaszentmária(-i) |

Etyek-Buda(-i) | Buda(-i) |

| Etyek(-i) |

| Velence(-i) |

Page36of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Hajós-Baja(-i) | |

Kőszegi | |

Kunság(-i) | Bácska(-i) |

| Cegléd(-i) |

| Duna mente or Duna menti |

| Izsák(-i) |

| Jászság(-i) |

| Kecskemét-Kiskunfélegyháza or Kecskemét-Kiskunfélegyházi |

| Kiskunhalas-Kiskunmajsa(-i) |

| Kiskőrös(-i) |

| Monor(-i) |

| Tisza mente or Tisza menti |

Mátra(-i) | |

Mór(-i) | |

Pannonhalma (Pannonhalmi) | |

Pécs(-i) | Versend(-i) |

| Szigetvár(-i) |

| Kapos(-i) |

Szekszárd(-i) | |

Somló(-i) | Kissomlyó-Sághegyi |

Sopron(-i) | Köszeg(-i) |

Tokaj(-i) | Abaújszántó(-i) or Bekecs(-i) or Bodrogkeresztúr(-i) or Bodrogkisfalud(-i) or Bodrogolaszi or
Erdőbénye(-i) or Erdőhorváti or Golop(-i) or Hercegkút(-i) or Legyesbénye(-i) or Makkoshotyka(-i) or
Mád(-i) or Mezőzombor(-i) or Monok(-i) or Olaszliszka(-i) or Rátka(-i) or Sárazsadány(-i) or Sárospatak(-i)
or Sátoraljaújhely(-i) or Szegi or Szegilong(-i) or Szerencs(-i) or Tarcal(-i) or Tállya(-i) or Tolcsva(-i) or
Vámosújfalu(-i) |

Tolna(-i) | Tamási |

| Völgység(-i) |

Villány(-i) | Siklós(-i), followed or not by Kisharsány(-i) or Nagyharsány(-i) or Palkonya(-i) or
Villánykövesd(-i) or Bisse(-i) or Csarnóta(-i) or Diósviszló(-i) or Harkány(-i) or Hegyszentmárton(-i) or
Kistótfalu(-i) or Márfa(-i) or Nagytótfalu(-i) or Szava(-i) or Túrony(-i) or Vokány(-i) |

Italy

1. Quality wines produced in a specified region

D.O.C.G. (Denominazioni di Origine Controllata e Garantita) |

Albana di Romagna Asti or Moscato d'Asti or Asti Spumante Barbaresco Bardolino superiore Barolo
Brachetto d'Acqui or Acqui Brunello di Motalcino Carmignano Chianti, whether or not followed by Colli
Aretini or Colli Fiorentini or Colline Pisane or Colli Senesi or Montalbano or Montespertoli or Rufina Chianti
Classico Fiano di Avellino Forgiano Franciacorta Gattinara Gavi or Cortese di Gavi Ghemme Greco di Tufo
Montefalco Sagrantino Montepulciano d'Abruzzo Colline Tramane Ramandolo Recioto di Soave Sforzato di
Valtellina or Sfursat di Valtellina Soave superiore Taurasi Torgiano Valtellina Superiore, whether or not
followed by Grumello or Inferno or Maroggia or Sassella or Stagafassli or Vagella Vermentino di Gallura or

Page37of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Sardegna Vermentino di Gallura Vernaccia di San Gimignano Vernaccia di Serrapetrona Vino Nobile di
Montepulciano |

D.O.C. (Denominazioni di Origine Controllata) |

Aglianico del Taburno or Taburno Aglianico del Vulture Albugnano Alcamo or Alcamo classico Aleatico di
Gradoli Aleatico di Puglia Alezio Alghero or Sardegna Alghero Alta Langa Alto Adige or dell'Alto Adige
(Südtirol or Südtiroler), whether or not followed by: Colli di Bolzano (Bozner Leiten),Meranese di Collina or
Meranese (Meraner Hügel or Meraner),Santa Maddalena (St.Magdalener),Terlano (Terlaner),Valle Isarco
(Eisacktal or Eisacktaler),Valle Venosta (Vinschgau)Ansonica Costa dell'Argentario Aprilia Arborea or
Sardegna Arborea Arcole Assisi Atina Aversa Bagnoli di Sopra or Bagnoli Barbera d'Asti Barbera del
Monferrato Barbera d'Alba Barco Reale di Carmignano or Rosato di Carmignano or Vin Santo di
Carmignano or Vin Santo Carmignano Occhio di Pernice Bardolino Bianchello del Metauro Bianco Capena
Bianco dell'Empolese Bianco della Valdinievole Bianco di Custoza Bianco di Pitigliano Bianco Pisano di S.
Torpè Biferno Bivongi Boca Bolgheri e Bolgheri Sassicaia Bosco Eliceo Botticino Bramaterra Breganze
Brindisi Cacc'e mmitte di Lucera Cagnina di Romagna Caldaro (Kalterer) or Lago di Caldaro (Kalterersee),
whether or not followed by"Classico" Campi Flegrei Campidano di Terralba or Terralba or Sardegna
Campidano di Terralba or Sardegna Terralba Canavese Candia dei Colli Apuani Cannonau di Sardegna,
whether or not followed by Capo Ferrato or Oliena or Nepente di Oliena Jerzu Capalbio Capri Capriano del
Colle Carema Carignano del Sulcis or Sardegna Carignano del Sulcis Carso Castel del Monte Castel San
Lorenzo Casteller Castelli Romani Cellatica Cerasuolo di Vittoria Cerveteri Cesanese del Piglio Cesanese
di Affile or Affile Cesanese di Olevano Romano or Olevano Romano Cilento Cinque Terre or Cinque Terre
Sciacchetrà, whether or not followed by Costa de sera or Costa de Campu or Costa da Posa Circeo Cirò
Cisterna d'Asti Colli Albani Colli Altotiberini Colli Amerini Colli Berici, whether or not followed by"Barbarano"
Colli Bolognesi, whether or not followed by Colline di Riposto or Colline Marconiane or Zola Predona or
Monte San Pietro or Colline di Oliveto or Terre di Montebudello or Serravalle Colli Bolognesi
Classico-Pignoletto Colli del Trasimeno or Trasimeno Colli della Sabina Colli dell'Etruria Centrale Colli di
Conegliano, whether or not followed by Refrontolo or Torchiato di Fregona Colli di Faenza Colli di Luni
(Regione Liguria) Colli di Luni (Regione Toscana) Colli di Parma Colli di Rimini Colli di Scandiano e di
Canossa Colli d'Imola Colli Etruschi Viterbesi Colli Euganei Colli Lanuvini Colli Maceratesi Colli Martani,
whether or not followed by Todi Colli Orientali del Friuli, whether or not followed by Cialla or Rosazzo Colli
Perugini Colli Pesaresi, whether or not followed by Focara or Roncaglia Colli Piacentini, whether or not
followed by Vigoleno or Gutturnio or Monterosso Val d'Arda or Trebbianino Val Trebbia or Val Nure Colli
Romagna Centrale Colli Tortonesi Collina Torinese Colline di Levanto Colline Lucchesi Colline Novaresi
Colline Saluzzesi Collio Goriziano or Collio Conegliano-Valdobbiadene, whether or not followed by Cartizze
Conero Contea di Sclafani Contessa Entellina Controguerra Copertino Cori Cortese dell'Alto Monferrato
Corti Benedettine del Padovano Cortona Costa d'Amalfi, whether or not followed by Furore or Ravello or
Tramonti Coste della Sesia Delia Nivolelli Dolcetto d'Acqui Dolcetto d'Alba Dolcetto d'Asti Dolcetto delle
Langhe Monregalesi Dolcetto di Diano d'Alba or Diano d'Alba Dolcetto di Dogliani superior or Dogliani
Dolcetto di Ovada Donnici Elba Eloro, whether or not followed by Pachino Erbaluce di Caluso or Caluso
Erice Esino Est! Est!! Est!!! Di Montefiascone Etna Falerio dei Colli Ascolani or Falerio Falerno del Massico
Fara Faro Frascati Freisa d'Asti Freisa di Chieri Friuli Annia Friuli Aquileia Friuli Grave Friuli Isonzo or
Isonzo del Friuli Friuli Latisana Gabiano Galatina Galluccio Gambellara Garda (Regione Lombardia) Garda
(Regione Veneto) Garda Colli Mantovani Genazzano Gioia del Colle Girò di Cagliari or Sardegna Girò di
Cagliari Golfo del Tigullio Gravina Greco di Bianco Greco di Tufo Grignolino d'Asti Grignolino del
Monferrato Casalese Guardia Sanframondi o Guardiolo Irpinia I Terreni di Sanseverino Ischia Lacrima di
Morro or Lacrima di Morro d'Alba Lago di Corbara Lambrusco di Sorbara Lambrusco Grasparossa di
Castelvetro Lambrusco Mantovano, whether or not followed by: Oltrepò Mantovano or
Viadanese-Sabbionetano Lambrusco Salamino di Santa Croce Lamezia Langhe Lessona Leverano
Lison-Pramaggiore Lizzano Loazzolo Locorotondo Lugana (Regione Veneto) Lugana (Regione Lombardia)
Malvasia delle Lipari Malvasia di Bosa or Sardegna Malvasia di Bosa Malvasia di Cagliari or Sardegna
Malvasia di Cagliari Malvasia di Casorzo d'Asti Malvasia di Castelnuovo Don Bosco Mandrolisai or
Sardegna Mandrolisai Marino Marmetino di Milazzo or Marmetino Marsala Martina or Martina Franca
Matera Matino Melissa Menfi, whether or not followed by Feudo or Fiori or Bonera Merlara Molise
Monferrato, whether or not followed by Casalese Monica di Cagliari or Sardegna Monica di Cagliari Monica
di Sardegna Monreale Montecarlo Montecompatri Colonna or Montecompatri or Colonna Montecucco
Montefalco Montello e Colli Asolani Montepulciano d'Abruzzo Monteregio di Massa Marittima
Montescudaio Monti Lessini or Lessini Morellino di Scansano Moscadello di Montalcino Moscato di Cagliari
or Sardegna Moscato di Cagliari Moscato di Noto Moscato di Pantelleria or Passito di Pantelleria or
Pantelleria Moscato di Sardegna, whether or not followed by: Gallura or Tempio Pausania or Tempio
Moscato di Siracusa Moscato di Sorso-Sennori or Moscato di Sorso or Moscato di Sennori or Sardegna
Moscato di Sorso-Sennori or Sardegna Moscato di Sorso or Sardegna Moscato di Sennori Moscato di
Trani Nardò Nasco di Cagliari or Sardegna Nasco di Cagliari Nebbiolo d'Alba Nettuno Nuragus di Cagliari
or Sardegna Nuragus di Cagliari Offida Oltrepò Pavese Orcia Orta Nova Orvieto (Regione Umbria) Orvieto
(Regione Lazio) Ostuni Pagadebit di Romagna, whether or not followed by Bertinoro Parrina Penisola
Sorrentina, whether or not followed by Gragnano or Lettere or Sorrento Pentro di Isernia or Pentro Pergola

Page38of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Piemonte Pietraviva Pinerolese Pollino Pomino Pornassio or Ormeasco di Pornassio Primitivo di Manduria
Reggiano Reno Riviera del Brenta Riesi Riviera del Garda Bresciano or Garda Bresciano Riviera Ligure di
Ponente, whether or not followed by: Riviera dei Fiori or Albenga o Albenganese or Finale or Finalese or
Ormeasco Roero Romagna Albana spumante Rossese di Dolceacqua or Dolceacqua Rosso Barletta
Rosso Canosa or Rosso Canosa Canusium Rosso Conero Rosso di Cerignola Rosso di Montalcino Rosso
di Montepulciano Rosso Orvietano or Orvietano Rosso Rosso Piceno Rubino di Cantavenna Ruchè di
Castagnole Monferrato Salice Salentino Sambuca di Sicilia San Colombano al Lambro or San Colombano
San Gimignano San Martino della Battaglia (Regione Veneto) San Martino della Battaglia (Regione
Lombardia) San Severo San Vito di Luzzi Sangiovese di Romagna Sannio Sant'Agata de Goti Santa
Margherita di Belice Sant'Anna di Isola di Capo Rizzuto Sant'Antimo Sardegna Semidano, whether or not
followed by Mogoro Savuto Scanzo or Moscato di Scanzo Scavigna Sciacca, whether or not followed by
Rayana Serrapetrona Sizzano Soave Solopaca Sovana Squinzano Strevi Tarquinia Teroldego Rotaliano
Terracina, preceded or not by "Moscato di" Terre dell'Alta Val Agri Terre di Franciacorta Torgiano
Trebbiano d'Abruzzo Trebbiano di Romagna Trentino, whether or not followed by Sorni or Isera or d'Isera
or Ziresi or dei Ziresi Trento Val d'Arbia Val di Cornia, whether or not followed by Suvereto Val Polcevera,
whether or not followed by Coronata Valcalepio Valdadige (Etschaler) (Regione Trentino Alto Adige)
Valdadige (Etschtaler), whether or not followed by Terra dei Forti (Regione Veneto) Valdichiana Valle
d'Aosta or Vallée d'Aoste, whether or not followed by: Arnad-Montjovet or Donnas or Enfer d'Arvier or
Torrette or Blanc de Morgex et de la Salle or Chambave or Nus Valpolicella, whether or not followed by
Valpantena Valsusa Valtellina Valtellina superiore, whether or not followed by Grumello or Inferno or
Maroggia or Sassella or Vagella Velletri Verbicaro Verdicchio dei Castelli di Jesi Verdicchio di Matelica
Verduno Pelaverga or Verduno Vermentino di Sardegna Vernaccia di Oristano or Sardegna Vernaccia di
Oristano Vernaccia di San Gimignano Vernaccia di Serrapetrona Vesuvio Vicenza Vignanello Vin Santo
del Chianti Vin Santo del Chianti Classico Vin Santo di Montepulciano Vini del Piave or Piave Zagarolo |

2. Table wines with a geographical indication

Allerona Alta Valle della Greve Alto Livenza (Regione veneto) Alto Livenza (Regione Fruili Venezia Giula)
Alto Mincio Alto Tirino Arghillà Barbagia Basilicata Benaco bresciano Beneventano Bergamasca Bettona
Bianco di Castelfranco Emilia Calabria Camarro Campania Cannara Civitella d'Agliano Colli Aprutini Colli
Cimini Colli del Limbara Colli del Sangro Colli della Toscana centrale Colli di Salerno Colli Ericini Colli
Trevigiani Collina del Milanese Colline del Genovesato Colline Frentane Colline Pescaresi Colline
Savonesi Colline Teatine Condoleo Conselvano Costa Viola Daunia Del Vastese or Histonium Delle
Venezie (Regione Veneto) Delle Venezie (Regione Friuli Venezia Giulia) Delle Venezie (Regione Trentino
— Alto Adige) Dugenta Emilia or dell'Emilia Epomeo Esaro Fontanarossa di Cerda Forlì Fortana del Taro
Frusinate or del Frusinate Golfo dei Poeti La Spezia or Golfo dei Poeti Grottino di Roccanova Isola dei
Nuraghi Lazio Lipuda Locride Marca Trevigiana Marche Maremma toscana Marmilla Mitterberg or
Mitterberg tra Cauria e Tel. or Mitterberg zwischen Gfrill und Toll Modena or Provincia di Modena
Montenetto di Brescia Murgia Narni Nurra Ogliastra Osco or Terre degli Osci Paestum Palizzi Parteolla
Pellaro Planargia Pompeiano Provincia di Mantova Provincia di Nuoro Provincia di Pavia Provincia di
Verona or Veronese Puglia Quistello Ravenna Roccamonfina Romangia Ronchi di Brescia Rotae
Rubicone Sabbioneta Salemi Salento Salina Scilla Sebino Sibiola Sicilia Sillaro or Bianco del Sillaro Spello
Tarantino Terrazze Retiche di Sondrio Terre del Volturno Terre di Chieti Terre di Veleja Tharros Toscana
or Toscano Trexenta Umbria Valcamonica Val di Magra Val di Neto Val Tidone Valdamato Vallagarina
(Regione Trentino — Alto Adige) Vallagarina (Regione Veneto) Valle Belice Valle del Crati Valle del Tirso
Valle d'Itria Valle Peligna Valli di Porto Pino Veneto Veneto Orientale Venezia Giulia Vigneti delle Dolomiti
or Weinberg Dolomiten (Regione Trentino — Alto Adige) Vigneti delle Dolomiti or Weinberg Dolomiten
(Regione Veneto) |

Luxembourg

Quality wines produced in a specified region

Specified regions (whether or not followed by the name of the commune or parts of commune) | Names of
communes or parts of communes |

Moselle Luxembourgeoise | Ahn Assel Bech-Kleinmacher Born Bous Burmerange Canach Ehnen Ellingen
Elvange Erpeldingen Gostingen Greiveldingen Grevenmacher Lenningen Machtum Mertert Moersdorf
Mondorf Niederdonven Oberdonven Oberwormeldingen Remerschen Remich Rolling Rosport Schengen
Schwebsingen Stadtbredimus Trintingen Wasserbillig Wellenstein Wintringen Wormeldingen |

Malta

1. Quality wines produced in a specified region

Specified regions | Sub-regions |

Page39of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Island of Malta | Rabat |

| Mdina or Medina |

| Marsaxlokk |

| Marnisi |

| Mgarr |

| Ta' Qali |

| Siggiewi |

Gozo | Ramla |

| Marsalforn |

| Nadur |

| Victoria Heights |

2. Table wines with a geographical indication

In Maltese | In English |

Gzejjer Maltin | Maltese Islands |

Portugal

1. Quality wines produced in a specified region

Specified regions (whether or not followed by the name of the sub-region) | Sub-regions |

Alenquer | |

Alentejo | Borba |

| Évora |

| Granja-Amareleja |

| Moura |

| Portalegre |

| Redondo |

| Reguengos |

| Vidigueira |

Arruda | |

Bairrada | |

Beira Interior | Castelo Rodrigo |

| Cova da Beira |

| Pinhel |

Biscoitos | |

Bucelas | |

Carcavelos | |

Chaves | |

Colares | |

Page40of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Dão, whether or not followed by Nobre | Alva |

| Besteiros |

| Castendo |

| Serra da Estrela |

| Silgueiros |

| Terras de Azurara |

| Terras de Senhorim |

Douro, whether or not preceded by Vinho do or Moscatel do | Baixo Corgo |

| Cima Corgo |

| Douro Superior |

Encostas d'Aire | Alcobaça |

| Ourém |

Graciosa | |

Lafões | |

Lagoa | |

Lagos | |

Lourinhã | |

Madeira or Madère or Madera or Vinho da Madeira or Madeira Weine or Madeira Wine or | |

Vin de Madère or Vino di Madera or Madera Wijn | |

Madeirense | |

Óbidos | |

Palmela | |

Pico | |

Portimão | |

Port or Porto or Oporto or Portwein or Portvin or Portwijn or Vin de Porto or Port Wine or Vinho do Porto | |

Ribatejo | |

| Almeirim |

| Cartaxo |

| Chamusca |

| Coruche |

| Santarém |

| Tomar |

Setúbal, whether or not preceded by Moscatel or followed by Roxo | |

Tavira | |

Távora-Varosa | |

Torres Vedras | |

Page41of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Trás-os-Montes | |

| Chaves |

| Planalto Mirandês |

| Valpaços |

Vinho Verde | |

| Amarante |

| Ave |

| Baião |

| Basto |

| Cávado |

| Lima |

| Monção |

| Paiva |

| Sousa |

2. Table wines with a geographical indication

Specified regions | Sub-regions |

Açores | |

Alentejano | |

Algarve | |

Beiras | Beira Alta |

| Beira Litoral |

| Terras de Sicó |

Duriense | |

Estremadura | Alta Estremadura |

Minho | |

Ribatejano | |

Terras Madeirenses | |

Terras do Sado | |

Transmontano | |

Romania

1. Quality wines produced in a specified region

Specified regions (whether or not followed by the name of the sub-region) | Sub-regions |

Aiud | |

Alba Iulia | |

Babadag | |

Banat, whether or not followed by | Dealurile Tirolului |

Page42of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.| Moldova Nouă |

| Silagiu |

Banu Mărăcine | |

Bohotin | |

Cernăteşti — Podgoria | |

Coteşti | |

Cotnari | |

Crişana, whether or not followed by | Biharia |

| Diosig |

| Şimleu Silvaniei |

Dealu Bujorului | |

Dealu Mare, whether or not followed by | Boldeşti |

| Breaza |

| Ceptura |

| Merei |

| Tohani |

| Urlaţi |

| Valea Călugărească |

| Zoreşti |

Drăgăşani | |

Huşi, whether or not followed by | Vutcani |

Iana | |

Iaşi, whether or not followed by | Bucium |

| Copou |

| Uricani |

Lechinţa | |

Mehedinţi, whether or not followed by | Corcova |

| Golul Drâncei |

| Oreviţa |

| Severin |

| Vânju Mare |

Miniş | |

Murfatlar, whether or not followed by | Cernavodă |

| Medgidia |

Nicoreşti | |

Odobeşti | |

Page43of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Oltina | |

Panciu | |

Pietroasa | |

Recaş | |

Sâmbureşti | |

Sarica Niculiţel, whether or not followed by | Tulcea |

Sebeş — Apold | |

Segarcea | |

Ştefăneşti, whether or not followed by | Costeşti |

Târnave, whether or not followed by | Blaj |

| Jidvei |

| Mediaş |

2. Table wines with a geographical indication

Specified regions (whether or not followed by the name of the sub-region) | Sub-regions |

Colinele Dobrogei | |

Dealurile Crişanei | |

Dealurile Moldovei, or | Dealurile Covurluiului |

| Dealurile Hârlăului |

| Dealurile Huşilor |

| Dealurile Iaşilor |

| Dealurile Tutovei |

| Terasele Siretului |

Dealurile Munteniei | |

Dealurile Olteniei | |

Dealurile Sătmarului | |

Dealurile Transilvaniei | |

Dealurile Vrancei | |

Dealurile Zarandului | |

Terasele Dunării | |

Viile Caraşului | |

Viile Timişului | |

Slovakia

Quality wines produced in a specified region

Specified regions (followed by the term "vinohradnícka oblast") | Sub-regions (whether or not followed by
the name of the specified region) (followed by the term "vinohradnícky rajón") |

Južnoslovenská | Dunajskostredský |

| Galantský |

Page44of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.| Hurbanovský |

| Komárňanský |

| Palárikovský |

| Šamorínsky |

| Strekovský |

| Štúrovský |

Malokarpatská | Bratislavský |

| Doľanský |

| Hlohovecký |

| Modranský |

| Orešanský |

| Pezinský |

| Senecký |

| Skalický |

| Stupavský |

| Trnavský |

| Vrbovský |

| Záhorský |

Nitrianska | Nitriansky |

| Pukanecký |

| Radošinský |

| Šintavský |

| Tekovský |

| Vrábeľský |

| Želiezovský |

| Žitavský |

| Zlatomoravecký |

Stredoslovenská | Fiľakovský |

| Gemerský |

| Hontiansky |

| Ipeľský |

| Modrokamenecký |

| Tornaľský |

| Vinický |

Tokaj/ská/-ský/ské | Čerhov |

| Černochov |

Page45of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.| Malá Tŕňa |

| Slovenské Nové Mesto |

| Veľká Bara |

| Veľká Tŕňa |

| Viničky |

Východoslovenská | Kráľovskochlmecký |

| Michalovský |

| Moldavský |

| Sobranecký |

Slovenia

1. Quality wines produced in a specified region

Specified regions followed or not by either the name of a wine-growing commune and/or the name of a
vineyard estate |

Bela krajina or Belokranjec Bizeljsko-Sremič or Sremič-Bizeljsko Dolenjska Dolenjska, cviček Goriška Brda
or Brda Haloze or Haložan Koper or Koprčan Kras Kras, teran Ljutomer-Ormož or Ormož-Ljutomer Maribor
or Mariborčan Radgona-Kapela or Kapela Radgona Prekmurje or Prekmurčan Šmarje-Virštanj or
Virštanj-Šmarje Srednje Slovenske gorice Vipavska dolina or Vipavec or Vipavčan |

2. Table wines with a geographical indication

Podravje Posavje Primorska |

Spain

1. Quality wines produced in a specified region

Specified regions (whether or not followed by the name of the sub-region) | Sub-regions |

Abona | |

Alella | |

Alicante | Marina Alta |

Almansa | |

Ampurdán-Costa Brava | |

Arabako Txakolina-Txakolí de Álava or Chacolí de Álava | |

Arlanza | |

Arribes | |

Bierzo | |

Binissalem-Mallorca | |

Bullas | |

Calatayud | |

Campo de Borja | |

Cariñena | |

Cataluña | |

Cava | |

Page46of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Chacolí de Bizkaia-Bizkaiko Txakolina | |

Chacolí de Getaria-Getariako Txakolina | |

Cigales | |

Conca de Barberá | |

Condado de Huelva | |

Costers del Segre | Artesa |

| Les Garrigues |

| Raimat |

| Valls de Riu Corb |

Dominio de Valdepusa | |

El Hierro | |

Finca Élez | |

Guijoso | |

Jerez-Xérès-Sherry or Jerez or Xérès or Sherry | |

Jumilla | |

La Mancha | |

La Palma | Fuencaliente |

| Hoyo de Mazo |

| Norte de la Palma |

Lanzarote | |

Málaga | |

Manchuela | |

Manzanilla | |

Manzanilla-Sanlúcar de Barrameda | |

Méntrida | |

Mondéjar | |

Monterrei | Ladera de Monterrei |

| Val de Monterrei |

Montilla-Moriles | |

Montsant | |

Navarra | Baja Montaña |

| Ribera Alta |

| Ribera Baja |

| Tierra Estella |

| Valdizarbe |

Penedés | |

Page47of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Pla de Bages | |

Pla i Llevant | |

Priorato | |

Rías Baixas | Condado do Tea |

| O Rosal |

| Ribeira do Ulla |

| Soutomaior |

| Val do Salnés |

Ribeira Sacra | Amandi |

| Chantada |

| Quiroga-Bibei |

| Ribeiras do Miño |

| Ribeiras do Sil |

Ribeiro | |

Ribera del Duero | |

Ribera del Guadiana | Cañamero |

| Matanegra |

| Montánchez |

| Ribera Alta |

| Ribera Baja |

| Tierra de Barros |

Ribera del Júcar | |

Rioja | Rioja Alavesa |

| Rioja Alta |

| Rioja Baja |

Rueda | |

Sierras de Málaga……………………………………… | Serranía de Ronda |

Somontano | |

Tacoronte-Acentejo | Anaga |

Tarragona | |

Tierra Alta | |

Tierra de León | |

Tierra del Vino de Zamora | |

Toro | |

Uclés | |

Utiel-Requena | |

Page48of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Valdeorras | |

Valdepeñas | |

Valencia | Alto Turia |

| Clariano |

| Moscatel de Valencia |

| Valentino |

Valle de Güímar | |

Valle de la Orotava | |

Valles de Benavente | |

Vinos de Madrid | Arganda |

| Navalcarnero |

| San Martín de Valdeiglesias |

Ycoden-Daute-Isora | |

Yecla | |

2. Table wines with a geographical indication

Vino de la Tierra de Abanilla Vino de la Tierra de Bailén Vino de la Tierra de Bajo Aragón Vino de la Tierra
de Betanzos Vino de la Tierra de Cádiz Vino de la Tierra de Campo de Belchite Vino de la Tierra de
Campo de Cartagena Vino de la Tierra de Cangas Vino de la Tierra de Castelló Vino de la Tierra de
Castilla Vino de la Tierra de Castilla y León Vino de la Tierra de Contraviesa-Alpujarra Vino de la Tierra de
Córdoba Vino de la Tierra de Costa de Cantabria Vino de la Tierra de Desierto de Almería Vino de la
Tierra de Extremadura Vino de la Tierra Formentera Vino de la Tierra de Gálvez Vino de la Tierra de
Granada Sur-Oeste Vino de la Tierra de Ibiza Vino de la Tierra de Illes Balears Vino de la Tierra de Isla de
Menorca Vino de la Tierra de La Gomera Vino de la Tierra de Laujar-Alpujarra Vino de la Tierra de Liébana
Vino de la Tierra de Los Palacios Vino de la Tierra de Norte de Granada Vino de la Tierra Norte de Sevilla
Vino de la Tierra de Pozohondo Vino de la Tierra de Ribera del Andarax Vino de la Tierra de Ribera del
Arlanza Vino de la Tierra de Ribera del Gállego-Cinco Villas Vino de la Tierra de Ribera del Queiles Vino
de la Tierra de Serra de Tramuntana-Costa Nord Vino de la Tierra de Sierra de Alcaraz Vino de la Tierra
de Torreperojil Vino de la Tierra de Valdejalón Vino de la Tierra de Valle del Cinca Vino de la Tierra de
Valle del Jiloca Vino de la Tierra del Valle del Miño-Ourense Vino de la Tierra Valles de Sadacia |

United kingdom

1. Quality wines produced in a specified region

English Vineyards Welsh Vineyards |

2. Table wines with a geographical indication

England or Berkshire Buckinghamshire Cheshire Cornwall Derbyshire Devon Dorset East Anglia
Gloucestershire Hampshire Herefordshire Isle of Wight Isles of Scilly Kent Lancashire Leicestershire
Lincolnshire Northamptonshire Nottinghamshire Oxfordshire Rutland Shropshire Somerset Staffordshire
Surrey Sussex Warwickshire West Midlands Wiltshire Worcestershire Yorkshire Wales or Cardiff
Cardiganshire Carmarthenshire Denbighshire Gwynedd Monmouthshire Newport Pembrokeshire Rhondda
Cynon Taf Swansea The Vale of Glamorgan Wrexham |

2. Changes to the list of geographical indications mutually agreed by the Contracting Parties or the Joint
Committee in accordance with the procedures set out in Articles 29 or 30.

PART B.

WINES ORIGINATING IN AUSTRALIA

1. Geographical indications of Australia:

STATE/ZONE | REGION | SUB-REGION |

Page49of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.South Eastern Australia | | |

NEW SOUTH WALES | | |

Big Rivers | | |

| Perricoota | |

| Riverina | |

Western Plains | | |

Central Ranges | | |

| Cowra | |

| Mudgee | |

| Orange | |

Southern New South Wales | | |

| Canberra District | |

| Gundagai | |

| Hilltops | |

| Tumbarumba | |

South Coast | | |

| Shoalhaven Coast | |

| Southern Highlands | |

Northern Slopes | | |

Northern Rivers | | |

| Hastings River | |

Hunter Valley | | |

| Hunter | |

| | Broke Fordwich |

QUEENSLAND | | |

| Granite Belt | |

| South Burnett | |

SOUTH AUSTRALIA | | |

Adelaide | | |

Mount Lofty Ranges | | |

| Adelaide Hills | |

| | Lenswood |

| | Piccadilly Valley |

| Adelaide Plains | |

| Clare Valley | |

Barossa | | |

Page50of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.| Barossa Valley | |

| Eden Valley | |

| | High Eden |

Fleurieu | | |

| Currency Creek | |
| Kangaroo Island | |

| Langhorne Creek | |

| McLaren Vale | |

| Southern Fleurieu | |

Limestone Coast | | |

| Coonawarra | |

| Mount Benson | |

| Padthaway | |

| Robe | |

| Wrattonbully | |

Lower Murray | | |

| Riverland | |

The Peninsulas | | |

Far North | | |

| Southern Flinders Ranges | |

VICTORIA | | |

North West Victoria | | |

| Murray Darling | |

| Swan Hill | |

North East Victoria | | |

| Alpine Valleys | |

| Beechworth | |

| Glenrowan | |

| King Valley | |

| Rutherglen | |

Central Victoria | | |

| Bendigo | |

| Goulburn Valley | |

| | Nagambie Lakes |

| Heathcote | |

| Strathbogie Ranges | |

Page51of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.| Upper Goulburn | |

Western Victoria | | |

| Grampians | |

| | Great Western |

| Henty | |

| Pyrenees | |

Port Phillip | | |

| Geelong | |

| Macedon Ranges | |

| Mornington Peninsula | |

| Sunbury | |

| Yarra Valley | |

Gippsland | | |

WESTERN AUSTRALIA | | |

Greater Perth | | |

| Perth Hills | |

| Swan District | |

| | Swan Valley |

| Peel | |

Central Western Australia | | |

South West Australia | | |

| Blackwood Valley | |

| Geographe | |

| Great Southern | |

| | Albany |

| | Denmark |

| | Frankland River |

| | Mount Barker |

| | Porongurup |

| Margaret River | |

| Manjimup | |

| Pemberton | |

West Australian South East Coastal | |

Eastern Plains, Inland and North of Western Australia | |

TASMANIA | | |

NORTHERN TERRITORY | | |

Page52of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL TERRITORY | |

2. Changes to the list of geographical indications mutually agreed by the Contracting Parties in accordance
with the procedures set out in Articles 29 or 30.

--------------------------------------------------

ANNEX III

Traditional expressions as referred to in Article 12

1. Traditional expressions of the Member States:

Traditional expressions | Wines concerned | Wine category | Language |

GERMANY |

Qualitätswein | All | Quality wine psr | German |

Qualitätswein garantierten Ursprungs/Q.g.U | All | Quality wine psr | German |

Qualitätswein mit Prädikat/Q.b.A.m.Pr or Prädikatswein | All | Quality wine psr | German |

Qualitätsschaumwein garantierten Ursprungs/Q.g.U | All | Quality sparkling wine psr | German |

Auslese | All | Quality wine psr | German |

Beerenauslese | All | Quality wine psr | German |

Eiswein | All | Quality wine psr | German |

Kabinett | All | Quality wine psr | German |

Spätlese | All | Quality wine psr | German |

Trockenbeerenauslese | All | Quality wine psr | German |

Landwein | All | Table wine with GI | German |

Affentaler | Altschweier, Bühl, Eisental, Neusatz/Bühl, Bühlertal, Neuweier/Baden- Baden | Quality wine psr
| German |

Badisch Rotgold | Baden | Quality wine psr | German |

Ehrentrudis | Baden | Quality wine psr | German |

Hock | Rhein, Ahr, Hessische Bergstraße, Mittelrhein, Nahe, Rheinhessen, Pfalz, Rheingau | Table wine
with GI | German |

Klassik/Classic | All | Quality wine psr | German |

Liebfrau(en)milch | Nahe, Rheinhessen, Pfalz, Rheingau | Quality wine psr | German |

Moseltaler | Mosel-Saar-Ruwer | Quality wine psr | German |

Riesling-Hochgewächs | All | Quality wine psr | German |

Schillerwein | Württemberg | Quality wine psr | German |

Weißherbst | All | Quality wine psr | German |

Winzersekt | All | Quality sparkling wine psr | German |

AUSTRIA |

Qualitätswein | All | Quality wine psr | German |

Qualitätswein besonderer Reife und Leseart or Prädikatswein | All | Quality wine psr | German |

Qualitätswein mit staatlicher Prüfnummer | All | Quality wine psr | German |

Page53of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Ausbruch/Ausbruchwein | All | Quality wine psr | German |

Auslese/Auslesewein | All | Quality wine psr | German |

Beerenauslese (wein) | All | Quality wine psr | German |

Eiswein | All | Quality wine psr | German |

Kabinett/Kabinettwein | All | Quality wine psr | German |

Schilfwein | All | Quality wine psr | German |

Spätlese/Spätlesewein | All | Quality wine psr | German |

Strohwein | All | Quality wine psr | German |

Trockenbeerenauslese | All | Quality wine psr | German |

Landwein | All | Table wine with GI | |

Ausstich | All | Quality wine psr and table wine with GI | German |

Auswahl | All | Quality wine psr and table wine with GI | German |

Bergwein | All | Quality wine psr and table wine with GI | German |

Klassik/Classic | All | Quality wine psr and table wine with GI | German |

Erste Wahl | All | Quality wine psr and table wine with GI | German |

Hausmarke | All | Quality wine psr and table wine with GI | German |

Heuriger | All | Quality wine psr and table wine with GI | German |

Jubiläumswein | All | Quality wine psr and table wine with GI | German |

Schilcher | Steiermark | Quality wine psr and table wine with GI | German |

Sturm | All | Partial fermented grape must with GI | German |

SPAIN |

Denominación de origen (DO) | All | Quality wine psr, quality sparkling wine psr, quality semi sparkling wine
psr, quality liqueur wine psr | Spanish |

Denominación de origen calificada (DOCa) | All | Quality wine psr, quality sparkling wine psr, quality semi
sparkling wine psr, quality liqueur wine psr | Spanish |

Vino dulce natural | All | Quality liquor wine psr | Spanish |

Vino generoso | [1] | Quality liquor wine psr | Spanish |

Vino generoso de licor | [2] | Quality liquor wine psr | Spanish |

Vino de la Tierra | All | Table wine with GI | |

Aloque | DO Valdepeñas | Quality wine psr | Spanish |

Amontillado | DDOO Jerez-Xérès-Sherry y Manzanilla Sanlúcar de Barrameda DO Montilla Moriles |
Quality liquor wine psr | Spanish |

Añejo | All | Quality wine psr, table wine with GI | Spanish |

Añejo | DO Malaga | Quality liquor wine psr | Spanish |

Chacoli/Txakolina | DO Chacoli de Bizkaia DO Chacoli de Getaria DO Chacoli de Alava | Quality wine psr |
Spanish |

Clásico | DO Abona DO El Hierro DO Lanzarote DO La Palma DO Tacoronte-Acentejo DO Tarragona DO
Valle de Güimar DO Valle de la Orotava DO Ycoden-Daute-Isora | Quality wine psr | Spanish |

Page54of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Cream | DDOO Jérez-Xerès-Sherry y Manzanilla Sanlúcar de Barrameda DO Montilla Moriles DO Málaga
DO Condado de Huelva | Quality liquor wine psr | English |

Criadera | DDOO Jérez-Xerès-Sherry y Manzanilla Sanlúcar de Barrameda DO Montilla Moriles DO
Málaga DO Condado de Huelva | Quality liquor wine psr | Spanish |

Criaderas y Soleras | DDOO Jérez-Xerès-Sherry y Manzanilla Sanlúcar de Barrameda DO Montilla Moriles
DO Málaga DO Condado de Huelva | Quality liquor wine psr | Spanish |

Crianza | All | Quality wine psr | Spanish |

Dorado | DO Rueda DO Malaga | Quality liqueur wine psr | Spanish |

Fino | DO Montilla Moriles DDOO Jerez-Xérès-Sherry y Manzanilla Sanlúcar de Barrameda | Quality
liqueur wine psr | Spanish |

Fondillón | DO Alicante | Quality wine psr | Spanish |

Gran Reserva | All quality wines psr Cava | Quality wine psr quality sparkling wine psr | Spanish |

Lágrima | DO Málaga | Quality liqueur wine psr | Spanish |

Noble | All | Quality wine psr, table wine with GI | Spanish |

Noble | DO Malaga | Quality liquor wine psr | Spanish |

Oloroso | DDOO Jerez-Xérès-Sherry y Manzanilla Sanlúcar de Barrameda DO Montilla- Moriles | Quality
liquor wine psr | Spanish |

Pajarete | DO Málaga | Quality liquor wine psr | Spanish |

Pálido | DO Condado de Huelva DO Rueda DO Málaga | Quality liquor wine psr | Spanish |

Palo Cortado | DDOO Jerez-Xérès-Sherry y Manzanilla Sanlúcar de Barrameda DO Montilla- Moriles |
Quality liquor wine psr | Spanish |

Primero de cosecha | DO Valencia | Quality wine psr | Spanish |

Rancio | All | Quality wine psr, quality liqueur wine psr | Spanish |

Raya | DO Montilla-Moriles | Quality liquor wine psr | Spanish |

Reserva | All | Quality wine psr | Spanish |

Sobremadre | DO vinos de Madrid | Quality wine psr | Spanish |

Solera | DDOO Jérez-Xerès-Sherry y Manzanilla Sanlúcar de Barrameda DO Montilla Moriles DO Málaga
DO Condado de Huelva | Quality liqueur wine psr | Spanish |

Superior | All | Quality wine psr | Spanish |

Trasañejo | DO Málaga | Quality liquor wine psr | Spanish |

Vino Maestro | DO Málaga | Quality liquor wine psr | Spanish |

Vendimia inicial | DO Utiel-Requena | Quality wine psr | Spanish |

Viejo | All | Quality wine psr, quality liqueur wine psr, table wine with GI | Spanish |

Vino de tea | DO La Palma | Quality wine psr | Spanish |

FRANCE |

Appellation d'origine contrôlée | All | Quality wine psr, quality sparkling wine psr, quality semi sparkling wine
psr, quality liqueur wine psr | French |

Appellation contrôlée | All | Quality wine psr, quality sparkling wine psr, quality semi sparkling wine psr,
quality liqueur wine psr | French |

Appellation d'origine/vin délimité de qualité supérieure | All | Quality wine psr, quality sparkling wine psr,
quality semi sparkling wine psr, quality liqueur wine psr | French |

Page55of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Vin doux naturel | AOC Banyuls, Banyuls Grand Cru, Muscat de Frontignan, Grand Roussillon, Maury,
Muscat de Beaume de Venise, Muscat du Cap Corse, Muscat de Lunel, Muscat de Mireval, Muscat de
Rivesaltes, Muscat de St Jean de Minervois, Rasteau, Rivesaltes | Quality wine psr | French |

Vin de pays | All | Table wine with GI | French |

Ambré | All | Quality liqueur wine psr, table wine with GI | French |

Château | All | Quality wine psr, quality liqueur wine psr, quality sparkling wine psr | French |

Clairet | AOC Bourgogne, AOC Bordeaux | Quality wine psr | French |

Claret | AOC Bordeaux | Quality wine psr | French |

Clos | All | Quality wine psr, quality sparkling wine psr, quality liqueur wine psr | French |

Cru Artisan | AOCMédoc, Haut-Médoc, Margaux, Moulis, Listrac, St Julien, Pauillac, St Estèphe | Quality
wine psr | French |

Cru Bourgeois | AOC Médoc, Haut-Médoc, Margaux, Moulis, Listrac, St Julien, Pauillac, St Estèphe |
Quality wine psr | French |

Cru Classé, preceded by: Grand, Premier Grand, Deuxième, Troisième, Quatrième, Cinquième | AOC
Côtes de Provence, Graves, St Emilion Grand Cru, Haut-Médoc, Margaux, St Julien, Pauillac, St Estèphe,
Sauternes, Pessac Léognan, Barsac | Quality wine psr | French |

Edelzwicker | AOC Alsace | Quality wine psr | German |

Grand Cru | AOC Alsace, Banyuls, Bonnes Mares, Chablis, Chambertin, Chapelle Chambertin, Chambertin
Clos-de-Bèze, Mazoyeres ou Charmes Chambertin, Latricières-Chambertin, Mazis Chambertin, Ruchottes
Chambertin, Griottes-Chambertin, Clos de la Roche, Clos Saint Denis, Clos de Tart, Clos de Vougeot, Clos
des Lambray, Corton, Corton Charlemagne, Charlemagne, Echézeaux, Grand Echézeaux, La Grande
Rue, Montrachet, Chevalier-Montrachet, Bâtard-Montrachet, Bienvenues-Bâtard-Montrachet,
Criots-Bâtard-Montrachet, Musigny, Romanée St Vivant, Richebourg, Romanée-Conti, La Romanée, La
Tâche, St Emilion | Quality wine psr | French |

Grand Cru | Champagne | Quality sparkling wine psr | French |

Hors d'âge | AOC Rivesaltes | Quality liqueur wine psr | French |

Passe-tout-grains | AOC Bourgogne | Quality wine psr | French |

Premier Cru | AOC Aloxe Corton, Auxey Duresses, Beaune, Blagny, Chablis, Chambolle Musigny,
Chassagne Montrachet, Champagne, Côtes de Brouilly, Fixin, Gevrey Chambertin, Givry, Ladoix,
Maranges, Mercurey, Meursault, Monthélie, Montagny, Morey St Denis, Musigny, Nuits,
Nuits-Saint-Georges, Pernand-Vergelesses, Pommard, Puligny-Montrachet, Rully, Santenay,
Savigny-les-Beaune, St Aubin, Volnay, Vougeot, Vosne-Romanée | Quality wine psr, quality sparkling wine
psr | French |

Primeur | All | Quality wine psr, table wine with GI | French |

Rancio | AOC Grand Roussillon, Rivesaltes, Banyuls, Banyuls grand cru, Maury, Clairette du Languedoc,
Rasteau | Quality liqueur wine psr | French |

Sélection de grains nobles | AOC Alsace, Alsace Grand cru, Monbazillac, Graves supérieures,
Bonnezeaux, Jurançon, Cérons, Quarts de Chaume, Sauternes, Loupiac, Côteaux du Layon, Barsac, Ste
Croix du Mont, Coteaux de l'Aubance, Cadillac | Quality wine psr | French |

Sur lie | AOC Muscadet, Muscadet-Coteaux de la Loire, Muscadet-Côtes de Grandlieu, Muscadet-Sèvres
et Maine, AOVDQS Gros Plant du Pays Nantais, VDT avec IG Vin de pays d'Oc et Vin de pays des Sables
du Golfe du Lion | Quality wine psr, table wine with GI | French |

Tuilé | AOC Rivesaltes | Quality liqueur wine psr | French |

Vendanges tardives | AOC Alsace, Jurançon | Quality wine psr | French |

Villages | AOC Anjou, Beaujolais, Côte de Beaune, Côte de Nuits, Côtes du Rhône, Côtes du Roussillon,
Mâcon | Quality wine psr | French |

Vin de paille | AOC Côtes du Jura, Arbois, L'Etoile, Hermitage | Quality wine psr | French |

Page56of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Vin jaune | AOC du Jura (Côtes du Jura, Arbois, L'Etoile, Château-Châlon) | Quality wine psr | French |

GREECE |

Ονομασια Προελεύσεως Ελεγχόμενη (ΟΠΕ) (appellation d'origine contrôlée) | All | Quality wine psr | Greek
|

Ονομασια Προελεύσεως Ανωτέρας Ποιότητος (ΟΠΑΠ) (appellation d'origine de qualité supérieure) | All |
Quality wine psr | Greek |

Οίνος γλυκός φυσικός (vin doux naturel) | Μοσχάτος Κεφαλληνίας (Muscat de Céphalonie), Μοσχάτος
Πατρών (Muscat de Patras), Μοσχάτος Ρίου-Πατρών (Muscat Rion de Patras), Μοσχάτος Λήμνου (Muscat
de Lemnos), Μοσχάτος Ρόδου (Muscat de Rhodos), Μαυροδάφνη Πατρών (Mavrodaphne de Patras),
Μαυροδάφνη Κεφαλληνίας (Mavrodaphne de Céphalonie), Σάμος (Samos), Σητεία (Sitia), Δαφνες
(Dafnès), Σαντορίνη (Santorini) | Quality liqueur wine psr | Greek |

Οίνος φυσικώς γλυκός (vin naturellement doux) | Vins de paille: Κεφαλληνίας (de Céphalonie), Δαφνες (de
Dafnès), Λήμνου (de Lemnos), Πατρών (de Patras), Ρίου-Πατρών (de Rion de Patras), Ρόδου (de
Rhodos), Σάμος (de Samos), Σητεία (de Sitia), Σαντορίνη (Santorini) | Quality wine psr | Greek |

Ονομασία κατά παράδοση (Onomasia kata paradosi) | All | Table wine with GI | Greek |

Τοπικός Οίνος (vin de pays) | All | Table wine with GI | Greek |

Αγρέπαυλη (Agrepavlis) | All | Quality wine psr, table wine with GI | Greek |

Αμπέλι (Ampeli) | All | Quality wine psr, table wine with GI | Greek |

Αμπελώνας (ες) (Ampelonas ès) | All | Quality wine psr, table wine with GI | Greek |

Αρχοντικό (Archontiko) | All | Quality wine psr, table wine with GI | Greek |

Κάβα [3] (Cava) | All | Table wine with GI | Greek |

Από διαλεκτούς αμπελώνες (Grand Cru) | Μοσχάτος Κεφαλληνίας (Muscat de Céphalonie), Μοσχάτος
Πατρών (Muscat de Patras), Μοσχάτος Ρίου-Πατρών (Muscat Rion de Patras), Μοσχάτος Λήμνου (Muscat
de Lemnos), Μοσχάτος Ρόδου (Muscat de Rhodos), Σάμος (Samos) | Quality liqueur wine psr | Greek |

Ειδικά Επιλεγμένος (Grand réserve) | All | Quality wine psr, quality liqueur wine psr | Greek |

Κάστρο (Kastro) | All | Quality wine psr, table wine with GI | Greek |

Κτήμα (Ktima) | All | Quality wine psr, table wine with GI | Greek |

Λιαστός (Liastos) | All | Quality wine psr, table wine with GI | Greek |

Μετόχι (Metochi) | All | Quality wine psr, table wine with GI | Greek |

Μοναστήρι (Monastiri) | All | Quality wine psr, table wine with GI | Greek |

Νάμα (Nama) | All | Quality wine psr, table wine with GI | Greek |

Νυχτέρι (Nychteri) | ΟΠΑΠ Santorini | Quality wine psr | Greek |

Ορεινό κτήμα (Orino Ktima) | All | Quality wine psr, table wine with GI | Greek |

Ορεινός αμπελώνας (Orinos Ampelonas) | All | Quality wine psr, table wine with GI | Greek |

Πύργος (Pyrgos) | All | Quality wine psr, table wine with GI | Greek |

Επιλογή ή Επιλεγμένος (Réserve) | All | Quality wine psr, quality liqueur wine psr | Greek |

Παλαιωθείς επιλεγμένος (Vieille réserve) | All | Quality liqueur wine psr | Greek |

Βερντέα (Verntea) | Zakynthos | Table wine with GI | Greek |

Vinsanto | OΡΑΠ Santorini | Quality wine psr, quality liqueur wine psr | Greek |

ITALY |

Page57of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Denominazione di Origine Controllata | All | Quality wine psr, quality sparkling wine psr, quality semi
sparkling wine psr, quality liqueur wine psr, partial fermented grape musts with GI | Italian |

Denominazione di Origine Controllata e Garantita | All | Quality wine psr, quality sparkling wine psr, quality
semi sparkling wine psr, quality liqueur wine psr, partial fermented grape musts with GI | Italian |

Vino Dolce Naturale | All | Quality wine psr, quality liqueur wine psr | Italian |

Inticazione geografica tipica (IGT) | All | Table wine, "vin de pays", wine of over-ripe grapes and grape;
must partially fermented with GI | Italian |

Landwein | Wine with GI of the autonomous province of Bolzano | Table wine, "vin de pays", wine of
over-ripe grapes and grape; must partially fermented with GI | German |

Vin de pays | Wine with GI of Aosta region | Table wine, "vin de pays", wine of over-ripe grapes and grape;
must partially fermented with GI | French |

Alberata o vigneti ad alberata | DOC Aversa | Quality wine psr, quality sparkling wine psr | Italian |

Amarone | DOC Valpolicella | Quality wine psr | Italian |

Ambra | DOC Marsala | Quality wine psr | Italian |

Ambrato | DOC Malvasia delle Lipari DOC Vernaccia di Oristano | Quality wine psr, quality liqueur wine psr
| Italian |

Annoso | DOC Controguerra | Quality wine psr | Italian |

Apianum | DOC Fiano di Avellino | Quality wine psr | Latin |

Auslese | DOC Caldaro e Caldaro classico- Alto Adige | Quality wine psr | German |

Barco Reale | DOC Barco Reale di Carmignano | Quality wine psr | Italian |

Brunello | DOC Brunello di Montalcino | Quality wine psr | Italian |

Buttafuoco | DOC Oltrepò Pavese | Quality wine psr, quality semi sparkling wine psr | Italian |

Cacc'e mitte | DOC Cacc'e Mitte di Lucera | Quality wine psr | Italian |

Cagnina | DOC Cagnina di Romagna | Quality wine psr | Italian |

Cannellino | DOC Frascati | Quality wine psr | Italian |

Cerasuolo | DOC Cerasuolo di Vittoria DOC Montepulciano d'Abruzzo | Quality wine psr | Italian |

Chiaretto | All | Quality wine psr, quality sparkling wine psr, quality liqueur wine psr, table wine with GI |
Italian |

Ciaret | DOC Monferrato | Quality wine psr | Italian |

Château | DOC Valle d'Aosta | Quality wine psr, quality sparkling wine psr, quality semi sparkling wine psr,
quality liqueur wine psr | French |

Classico | All | Quality wine psr, quality semi sparkling wine psr, quality liqueur wine psr | Italian |

Dunkel | DOC Alto Adige DOC Trentino | Quality wine psr | German |

Est! Est!!Est!!! | DOC Est! Est!!Est!!! di Montefiascone | Quality wine psr, quality sparkling wine psr | Latin |

Falerno | DOC Falerno del Massico | Quality wine psr | Italian |

Fine | DOC Marsala | Quality liqueur wine psr | Italian |

Fior d'Arancio | DOC Colli Euganei | Quality wine psr, quality sparkling wine psr, table wine with GI | Italian
|

Falerio | DOC Falerio dei colli Ascolani | Quality wine psr | Italian |

Flétri | DOC Valle d'Aosta or Vallée d'Aoste | Quality wine psr | Italian |

Page58of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Garibaldi Dolce (or GD) | DOC Marsala | Quality liqueur wine psr | Italian |

Governo all'uso toscano | DOCG Chianti/Chianti Classico IGT Colli della Toscana Centrale | Quality wine
psr, table wine with GI | Italian |

Gutturnio | DOC Colli Piacentini | Quality wine psr, quality semi-sparkling wine psr | Italian |

Italia Particolare (or IP) | DOC Marsala | Quality liqueur wine psr | Italian |

Klassisch/Klassisches Ursprungsgebiet | DOC Caldaro DOC Alto Adige (known as Santa Maddalena and
Terlano) | Quality wine psr | German |

Kretzer | DOC Alto Adige DOC Trentino DOC Teroldego Rotaliano | Quality wine psr | German |

Lacrima | DOC Lacrima di Morro d'Alba | Quality wine psr | Italian |

Lacryma Christi | DOC Vesuvio | Quality wine psr, quality liqueur wine psr | Italian |

Lambiccato | DOC Castel San Lorenzo | Quality wine psr | Italian |

London Particolar (or LP/Inghilterra) | DOC Marsala | Quality liqueur wine psr | Italian |

Morellino | DOC Morellino di Scansano | Quality wine psr | Italian |

Occhio di Pernice | DOC Bolgheri, Vin Santo Di Carmignano, Colli dell'Etruria Centrale, Colline Lucchesi,
Cortona, Elba, Montecarlo, Monteregio di Massa Maritima, San Gimignano, Sant'Antimo, Vin Santo del
Chianti, Vin Santo del Chianti Classico, Vin Santo di Montepulciano | Quality wine psr | Italian |

Oro | DOC Marsala | Quality liqueur wine psr | Italian |

Pagadebit | DOC pagadebit di Romagna | Quality wine psr, quality liqueur wine psr | Italian |

Passito | All | Quality wine psr, quality liqueur wine psr, table wine with GI | Italian |

Ramie | DOC Pinerolese | Quality wine psr | Italian |

Rebola | DOC Colli di Rimini | Quality wine psr | Italian |

Recioto | DOC Valpolicella DOC Gambellara DOCG Recioto di Soave | Quality wine psr, quality sparkling
wine psr | Italian |

Riserva | All | Quality wine psr, quality sparkling wine psr, quality semi sparkling wine psr, quality liqueur
wine psr | Italian |

Rubino | DOC Garda Colli Mantovani DOC Rubino di Cantavenna DOC Teroldego Rotaliano DOC Trentino
| Quality wine psr | Italian |

Rubino | DOC Marsala | Quality liqueur wine psr | Italian |

Sangue di Giuda | DOC Oltrepò Pavese | Quality wine psr, quality semi sparkling wine psr | Italian |

Scelto | All | Quality wine psr | Italian |

Sciacchetrà | DOC Cinque Terre | Quality wine psr | Italian |

Sciac-trà | DOC Pornassio or Ormeasco di Pornassio | Quality wine psr | Italian |

Sforzato, Sfursàt | DO Valtellina | Quality wine psr | Italian |

Spätlese | DOC and IGT de Bolzano | Quality wine psr, table wine with GI | German |

Soleras | DOC Marsala | Quality liqueur wine psr | Italian |

Stravecchio | DOC Marsala | Quality liqueur wine psr | Italian |

Strohwein | DOC and IGT de Bolzano | Quality wine psr, table wine with GI | German |

Superiore | All | Quality wine psr, quality sparkling wine psr, quality semi sparkling wine psr, quality liqueur
wine psr | Italian |

Superiore Old Marsala (or SOM) | DOC Marsala | Quality liqueur wine psr | Italian |

Page59of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Torchiato | DOC Colli di Conegliano | Quality wine psr | Italian |

Torcolato | DOC Breganze | Quality wine psr | Italian |

Vecchio | DOC Rosso Barletta, Aglianico del Vuture, Marsala, Falerno del Massico | Quality wine psr,
quality liqueur wine psr | Italian |

Vendemmia Tardiva | All | Quality wine psr, quality semi sparkling wine psr, table wine with GI | Italian |

Verdolino | All | Quality wine psr, table wine with GI | Italian |

Vergine | DOC Marsala DOC Val di Chiana | Quality wine psr, quality liqueur wine psr | Italian |

Vermiglio | DOC Colli dell Etruria Centrale | Quality liqueur wine psr | Italian |

Vino Fiore | All | Quality wine psr | Italian |

Vino Nobile | Vino Nobile di Montepulciano | Quality wine psr | Italian |

Vino Novello o Novello | All | Quality wine psr, table wine with GI | Italian |

Vin santo/Vino Santo/Vinsanto | DOC et DOCG Bianco dell'Empolese, Bianco della Valdinievole, Bianco
Pisano di San Torpé, Bolgheri, Candia dei Colli Apuani, Capalbio, Carmignano, Colli dell'Etruria Centrale,
Colline Lucchesi, Colli del Trasimeno, Colli Perugini, Colli Piacentini, Cortona, Elba, Gambellera,
Montecarlo, Monteregio di Massa Maritima, Montescudaio, Offida, Orcia, Pomino, San Gimignano,
Sant'Antimo, Val d'Arbia, Val di Chiana, Vin Santo del Chianti, Vin Santo del Chianti Classico, Vin Santo di
Montepulciano, Trentino | Quality wine psr | Italian |

Vivace | All | Quality wine psr, quality liqueur wine psr, table wine with GI | Italian |

LUXEMBOURG |

Marque nationale | All | Quality wine psr, quality sparkling wine psr | French |

Appellation contrôlée | All | Quality wine psr, quality sparkling wine psr | French |

Appellation d'origine contrôlée | All | Quality wine psr, quality sparkling wine psr | French |

Vin de pays | All | Table wine with GI | French |

Grand premier cru | All | Quality wine psr | French |

Premier cru | All | Quality wine psr | French |

Vin classé | All | Quality wine psr | French |

Château | All | Quality wine psr, quality sparkling wine psr | French |

PORTUGAL |

Denominação de origem (DO) | All | Quality wine psr, quality sparkling wine psr, quality semi sparkling wine
psr, quality liqueur wine psr | Portuguese |

Denominação de origem controlada (DOC) | All | Quality wine psr, quality sparkling wine psr, quality semi
sparkling wine psr, quality liqueur wine psr | Portuguese |

Indicação de proveniencia regulamentada (IPR) | All | Quality wine psr, quality sparkling wine psr, quality
semi sparkling wine psr, quality liqueur wine psr | Portuguese |

Vinho doce natural | All | Quality liqueur wine psr | Portuguese |

Vinho generoso | DO Porto, Madeira, Moscatel de Setubal, Carcavelos | Quality liqueur wine psr |
Portuguese |

Vinho regional | All | Table wine with GI | Portuguese |

Canteiro | DO Madeira | Quality liqueur wine psr | Portuguese |

Colheita Seleccionada | All | Quality wine psr, table wine with GI | Portuguese |

Crusted/Crusting | DO Porto | Quality liqueur wine psr | English |

Page60of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Escolha | All | Quality wine psr, table wine with GI | Portuguese |

Escuro | DO Madeira | Quality liqueur wine psr | Portuguese |

Fino | DO Porto DO Madeira | Quality liqueur wine psr | Portuguese |

Frasqueira | DO Madeira | Quality liqueur wine psr | Portuguese |

Garrafeira | All | Quality wine psr, table wine with GI Quality liqueur wine psr | Portuguese |

Lágrima | DO Porto | Quality liqueur wine psr | Portuguese |

Leve | Table wine with GI Estremadura et Ribatejano DO Madeira, DO Porto | Table wine with GI quality
liqueur wine psr | Portuguese |

Nobre | DO Dão | Quality wine psr | Portuguese |

Reserva | All | Quality wine psr, quality sparkling wine psr, quality liqueur wine psr, table wine with GI |
Portuguese |

Reserva velha (or grande reserva) | DO Madeira | Quality sparkling wine psr, quality liqueur wine psr |
Portuguese |

Ruby | DO Porto | Quality liqueur wine psr | English |

Solera | DO Madeira | Quality liqueur wine psr | Portuguese |

Super reserva | All | Quality sparkling wine psr | Portuguese |

Superior | All | Quality wine psr, quality liqueur wine psr, table wine with GI | Portuguese |

Tawny | DO Porto | Quality liqueur wine psr | English |

Vintage whether or not supplemented by Late Bottle (LBV) or Character | DO Porto | Quality liqueur wine
psr | English |

CZECH REPUBLIC |

pozdní sběr | All | Quality wine psr | Czech |

archivní víno | All | Quality wine psr | Czech |

panenské víno | All | Quality wine psr | Czech |

CYPRUS |

Τοπικός Οίνος | All | Table wine with GI | Greek |

Μοναστήρι (Monastiri) | All | Quality wine psr and table wine with GI | Greek |

Οίνος Ελεγχόμενης Ονομασίας Προέλευσης | All | Quality wine psr | Greek |

Κτήμα (Ktima) | All | Quality wine psr and table wine with GI | Greek |

HUNGARY |

minőségi bor | All | Quality wine psr | Hungarian |

különleges minőségű bor | All | Quality wine psr | Hungarian |

fordítás | Tokaj/i | Quality wine psr | Hungarian |

máslás | Tokaj/i | Quality wine psr | Hungarian |

szamorodni | Tokaj/i | Quality wine psr | Hungarian |

aszú … puttonyos, completed by the numbers 3-6 | Tokaj/i | Quality wine psr | Hungarian |

aszúeszencia | Tokaj/i | Quality wine psr | Hungarian |

eszencia | Tokaj/i | Quality wine psr | Hungarian |

Page61of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.tájbor | All | Table wine with GI | Hungarian |

bikavér | Eger, Szekszárd | Quality wine psr | Hungarian |

késői szüretelésű bor | All | Quality wine psr | Hungarian |

válogatott szüretelésű bor | All | Quality wine psr | Hungarian |

muzeális bor | All | Quality wine psr | Hungarian |

siller | All | Table wine with GI, and quality wine psr | Hungarian |

SLOVAKIA |

forditáš | Tokaj/ská | Quality wine psr | Slovak |

mášláš | Tokaj/ská | Quality wine psr | Slovak |

samorodné | Tokaj/ská | Quality wine psr | Slovak |

výber … putňový, completed by the numbers 3-6 | Tokaj/ská | Quality wine psr | Slovak |

výberová esencia | Tokaj/ská | Quality wine psr | Slovak |

esencia | Tokaj/ská | Quality wine psr | Slovak |

SLOVENIA |

Penina | All | Quality sparkling wine psr | Slovenian |

Pozna trgatev | All | Quality wine psr | Slovenian |

Izbor | All | Quality wine psr | Slovenian |

jagodni izbor | All | Quality wine psr | Slovenian |

suhi jagodni izbor | All | Quality wine psr | Slovenian |

Ledeno vino | All | Quality wine psr | Slovenian |

arhivsko vino | All | Quality wine psr | Slovenian |

Mlado vino | All | Quality wine psr | Slovenian |

Cviček | Dolenjska | Quality wine psr | Slovenian |

Teran | Kras | Quality wine psr | Slovenian |

2. Changes to the list of traditional expressions mutually agreed by the Contracting Parties or the Joint
Committee in accordance with the procedures set out in Articles 29 or 30.

[1] The wines concerned are quality liqueur wines psr foreseen in Annex VI, point L, paragraph 8 of Council
Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999.

[2] The wines concerned are quality liqueur wines psr foreseen in Annex VI, point L, paragraph 8 of Council
Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999.

[3] The protection of the term "cava" foreseen in Council Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999 is without
prejudice to the protection of the geographical indication applicable to quality sparkling wines psr "Cava".

--------------------------------------------------

ANNEX IV

Categories of wine and sales descriptions as referred to in Article 12(1)(a)(IV) and (V)

PART A

Categories of wine

- quality wine produced in a specified region,

Page62of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.- quality wine psr,

- quality sparkling wine produced in a specified region,

- quality sparkling wine psr,

- quality semi-sparkling wine produced in a specified region,

- quality semi-sparkling wine psr,

- quality liqueur wine produced in a specified region,

- quality liqueur wine psr,

- and the equivalent terms and abbreviations in other Community languages.

PART B

Sales descriptions

- Sekt bestimmter Anbaugebiete,

- Sekt b.A.,

in German.

--------------------------------------------------

ANNEX V

Quality wine terms as referred to in Article 23

1. Quality wine terms of Australia:

Term | Conditions of use | Wine type [1] |

Cream | "Cream" describes a style of Australian fortified sweet wine of not less then 5 beaume. The wine
will be pale yellow to light amber in colour, rich and sweet to taste and typically with a vinous to fruity
aroma. The wine can be blended from more than one vintage and typically does not exhibit age-derived
characters. Ageing takes place in a variety of vessels. Fortification must be from Australian grape spirit. In
addition, for the export market, the wine will be produced using the solera system, including being aged in
oak barrels for at least three years. | Australian fortified wine |

Crusted/Crusting | Crusted/Crusting describes a fortified wine in which deposits may develop in the bottle. |
Australian fortified wine |

Ruby | Ruby describes a style of Australian fortified wine that receives only a few years of ageing prior to
bottling. At bottling the wine retains a deep ruby colour and tends to be robust in character, full bodied and
fruity. The wine can be blended from more than one vintage, with a view to sustaining the primary
characteristics of colour and aroma. Fortification must be from grape spirit. In addition, for the export
market, the ageing of the wine will include, as a minimum, ageing in oak barrels for four months. |
Australian fortified wine |

Term | Conditions of use | Wine type |

Solera | Solera describes a system of using casks/barrels containing wines of varying ages. The wines
from the barrel containing the oldest mix of vintages is taken from the solera. All of the wines in the barrels
of the solera then cascade in order of age and the barrel containing the youngest mix of wines refreshed
with new wine. The process gives a blended product, ranging from pale straw to a dark amber colour
depending on the style being produced. This process is reserved for the production of fortified wines. |
Australian fortified wine |

Tawny | Tawny describes a style of Australian fortified wine that receives varying years of ageing prior to
bottling. At bottling the wine has a red-gold or "tawny" hue. The wines should reflect the characteristics of
careful aging showing "developed" rather than "fresh" fruit characters. However, many show the fresh well
developed "fruit" characteristics of younger wine. The wine is usually blended from more than one vintage,
may be matured in oak containers and reaches an optimal age before sale. Fortification must be from
grape spirit. | Australian fortified wine |

Page63of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Vintage | Vintage describes a style of Australian fortified wine that is produced from a single vintage year.
These high quality wines are characterised by relatively long periods of bottle maturation. They are
generally deep in colour, full bodied and smooth. They are entitled to bear the designation "vintage" and
the corresponding year. These wines are characterised by the ability to improve with age in bottle and
benefit from prolonged cellaring. Such wines are aged for a minimum of twenty months prior to release.
Fortification must be from Australian grape spirit. In addition, for the export market, the ageing of the wine
will include, as a minimum, ageing in oak barrels for four months. | Australian fortified wine |

2. Changes to the list of quality wine terms mutually agreed by the Contracting Parties or the Joint
Committee in accordance with the procedures set out in Articles 29 or 30.

[1] The Contracting Parties acknowledge that the Australian wine type "fortified wine" is equivalent to the
Community product "liqueur wine" as defined in point 14 of Annex I to Council Regulation (EC) No
1493/1999.

--------------------------------------------------

ANNEX VI

Product type as referred to in Article 20(3)(d)

Terms | Limit of residual sugar for still wines |

Dry | < 4 g/l, or < 9 g/l if total acidity expressed as grams of tartaric acid per litre is < 2 g below the residual
sugar content |

Medium dry | between 4 and 12 g/l |

Medium sweet | between 12 and 45 g/l |

Sweet | [] 45 g/l |

Terms | Limit of residual sugar for sparkling wines |

Brut nature | < 3 g/l |

Extra brut | between 0 and 6 g/l |

Brut | between 0 and 15 g/l |

Extra dry | between 12 and 20 g/l |

Dry | between 17 and 35 g/l |

Medium dry | between 35 and 50 g/l |

Sweet | [] 50 g/l |

--------------------------------------------------

ANNEX VII

List of vine varieties or their synonyms that contain or consist of a Community GI that may appear on the
labelling of wines originating in Australia in accordance with Article 22(2)

1. Vine varieties or their synonyms:

Alicante Bouchet

Auxerrois

Barbera

Carignan

Carignane

Chardonnay

Pinot Chardonnay

Page64of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Orange Muscat

Rhine Riesling

Trebbiano

Verdelho

2. Changes to the list of vine varieties or their synonyms mutually agreed by the Contracting Parties or the
Joint Committee in accordance with the procedures set out in Articles 29 or 30.

--------------------------------------------------

ANNEX VIII

Definition of certain production methods as referred to in Article 20(3)(i)

1. If the following terms are used for the description and presentation of a wine, the wine must have been
matured, fermented or aged in oak barrels:

"barrel aged" "barrel fermented" "barrel matured" | "oak aged" "oak fermented" "oak matured" | "wood
aged" "wood fermented" "wood matured" |

2. The following terms may be used for the description and presentation of a wine originating in Australia
under the following conditions of use:

botrytis (or similar expression) | the wine must be made from fresh ripe grapes of which a significant
proportion have been affected under natural conditions by the mould Botrytis cinerea in a manner which
favours the concentration of sugars in the berries |

bottle fermented | the wine must be a sparkling wine produced by the fermentation in a bottle not
exceeding 5 litres in capacity and aged on its lees for not less than 6 months |

noble late harvested | the wine must be made from fresh ripe grapes of which a significant proportion have
been affected under natural conditions by the mould Botrytis cinerea in a manner which favours the
concentration of sugars in the berries. |

special late harvested | the wine must be made from fresh ripe grapes of which a significant proportion
have been desiccated under natural conditions in a manner which favours the concentration of sugars in
the berries. |

3. If other terms related to the making of a wine are used for the description and presentation of the wine,
the wine must have been made in accordance with the meaning of those terms as generally used and
understood by professional winemakers in the wine producing country.

--------------------------------------------------

ANNEX IX

Domestic legislation relating to description, presentation, packaging or composition of wine as referred to in
Article 26

FOR AUSTRALIA

Australian Wine and Brandy Corporation Act 1980, and subordinate legislation,

Trade Practices Act 1974,

Australia New Zealand Food Standards Code.

FOR THE COMMUNITY

Title V and Annexes VII and VIII of Council Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999 on the common organisation of
the market in wine,

Commission Regulation (EC) No 753/2002 laying down certain rules for applying Council Regulation (EC)
No 1493/1999 as regards the description, designation, presentation and protection of certain wine sector
products.

--------------------------------------------------

Page65of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.ANNEX X

Contact points as referred to in Article 31

Changes to contact information shall be notified in a timely manner.

(a) AUSTRALIA

The Chief Executive

Australian Wine and Brandy Corporation

National Wine Centre

Botanic Road

ADELAIDE SA 5000

Australia

(PO Box 2733

KENT TOWN SA 5071

Australia)

Tel. (+ 61) (8) 8228 2000

Fax (+ 61) (8) 8228 2022

e-mail: awbc@awbc.com.au

(b) COMMUNITY

European Commission

The Directorate-General for Agriculture and Rural Development

(EC-Australia Agreement on Trade in Wine)

B-1049 Bruxelles/B-1049 Brussel

Belgium

Tel. (+ 32)(2) 295-3240

Fax (+ 32)(2) 295-7540

e-mail: agri-library@ec.europa.eu

--------------------------------------------------

03.60.55.00

Agriculture

Products subject to market organisation

Wine

11.60.30.00

External relations
Commercial policy

Trade arrangements

11.40.70.00

External relations

Page66of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Bilateral agreements with non-member countries

Oceanian countries

Wine
Commercial policy

External relations

German

English

Danish

Spanish

Estonian

Finnish

French

Greek

Hungarian

Italian

Latvian

Lithuanian

Maltese

Dutch

Polish

Portuguese

Slovenian

Slovak

Swedish

Czech

Bulgarian

Romanian

of document: 01/12/2008

of effect: 00/00/0000; Entry into force See Art 44.1

of signature: 01/12/2008; Brussels

end of validity: 99/99/9999

Australia

European Community

ratification of an agreement

trade agreement (EU)

wine

Page67of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.product designation

designation of origin

viticulture

European Community

Australia

Agreement

European Community

12006E133

12006E300

-P2L1FR1 ADOPTION

12006E300

-P4 ADOPTION

31999R1493

32001R0883

32002R0753

Validity : notice of termination of 1 Year

21994A0331(01)

Repeal

Adopted by

32009D0049

from 28/11/2008

Relation

22010X0806(01)

OJ L 28, 30.1.2009, p. 3–87 (BG, ES, CS, DA, DE, ET, EL, EN, FR, IT, LV, LT, HU, MT, NL, PL, PT, RO,
SK, SL, FI, SV)

Special edition in croatian Chapter 03 Volume 012 P. 230 - 314

CELEX

99140220

CO euruno : The European Union | icjus : International Court of Justice
IN

i426 : Wine | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | ialco : Alcoholic Beverages/Drinks | ibevrge :
Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods

NS c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | c31 : Marketing | e51 : Trade/External Payments | gdip : International
Relations | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir :
Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News
Filter

RE eecz : European Union Countries | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | brus : Brussels | apacz :

Asia Pacific | belg : Belgium | benluxz : Benelux Countries | eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe

PUB Office for Official Publications of the European Communities
AN Document CELEXE0020140222ea2l0044j

Page68of79©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.