Foreign property demand buoys dollar

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Commercial realestate
Foreign property demand buoys dollar

Carolyn Cummins Commercial property editor
447 words
24 September 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
25
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

The rise of foreign investment into the local commercial property market may have placed upward
pressure on the value of the dollar, according to the Reserve Bank of Australia.
This comes as more properties are being earmarked for purchase by overseas investors, including
GDI's $129 million tower at 233 Castlereagh Street and DEXUS Property's 201 Elizabeth Street, with
the China-based Dalian Wanda Group said to be an interested party. These are earmarked for
residential conversion, like the former Sydney Water Boardsite at Liverpool Street, being
redeveloped by China's Greenland Group.

In its bulletin for the September quarter, the RBA says the cash inflows are still small relative to total
capital inflows ($93 billion in 2013), and the effect will have been mitigated to the extent that some
foreigners financed their purchases by borrowing from domestic banks in Australian dollars, in part to
hedge currency-related balance sheet risk.
But, the bulletin added, increased demand from foreigners has had several effects on commercial
property markets.

"As noted by analysts, the strength in foreign demand has contributed to the recent increases in capital
values, which have occurred even as leasing conditions have remained subdued," it says.
The report says the Foreign Investment Review Board revealed that the value of these overseas
investment approvals has increased substantially in recent years, from $11 billion in 2009-10 to nearly
$35 billion in 2012-13.
"Approvals to purchase established commercial properties increased most significantly, while
approvals to invest in vacant land also increased from a low base," the RBA reported.

CBRE's head of research, Australia, Stephen McNabb, said Australia had attracted an above average
share of capital primarily due to stable economic conditions, which have supported a higher interest
rate and yield environment in comparison to other markets globally.

"Capital follows investment opportunity and Australia has stood out as a recipient of global funds due
to strong growth in real asset accumulation while business investment in other markets stagnated," he
said. "The associated growth in Australia's relative income saw a re-rating of prime rents in a global
context in line with the stronger $A. For instance, over the past decade, prime office rents (in $US) in
the Sydney CBD have doubled while many other established markets around the world have seen
much less significant growth."

A new CBRE report shows that foreign investors have increased their balance sheet exposure to
Australia by $18.8 billion over the past 7½ years, with 68 per cent directed at office property and just
over 29 per cent invested in retail assets.

CO

rbkaus : Reserve Bank of Australia | dwgrcl : Dalian Wanda Group Company Limited

Page129of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

RE

PUB
AN

i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ireest : Real Estate | i8396 :
Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New
South Wales
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020140923ea9o0004o

Page130of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.