THE FORUM

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Extra
THE FORUM

1,702 words
15 June 2014
Sun Herald
SHD
First
32
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

LETTERS

Service, not profit

I do not think that I am the only one to hold the view that the postal service is, and always has been, an
essential (five days a week) public service ("Mail service to axe 900 jobs", June 8). Yes, it should be run
on business lines, but not to the point that profit dictates what services are to be provided to the public.

The latter concept seems to be economic rationalism taken to an illogical extreme. After all, what is
being conducted - a public service or a profit-making business? The default position is public service,
until the electorate decides otherwise.

I will be sending a letter (via the post) to my local Member, asking whether the time has come for
Australia Post to return to being budget-funded, as it was for most of its existence, and like many other
essential public services provided by the Commonwealth, such as defence, border protection and
federal policing.

Pasquale Vartuli Wahroonga
Highly paid Australia Post chief executive Ahmed Fahour pocketed $4.8 million last year while the
organisation he was in charge of leaked $218 million. On that level of salary I would have thought that
visionary management decisions, such as developing internet retail deliveries and embracing other
electronic communication systems, would have taken precedence over upgrading the model of postie
bikes.

Bob Harris Sawtell

Sometimes I wish I wasn't old enough to remember when the government ran things. Workers paid tax
to the government and they in turn provided us with services: postal, gas, electricity, roads, rail, airlines,
telephone, parks and gardens, water etc. There was never any mention that any of those services
should make a profit. I find myself wondering now why people have to pay tax to a government that
does not provide these services any more.

Jan Carroll Potts Point

Complications

As it's mandatory to have a GP's referral to go to a specialist, surely the GP has the responsibility to
recommend and refer you to somebody competent and without a history of wrongdoing, as in the case
of Suresh Nair ("Surgeon in prison but victims of his botched operations still suffer", June 8).
Otherwise, what's the point?

Ralph Miller Yowie Bay

Playtime is over

Page212of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.I agree with Annabel Crabb. When are the adults going to join the government ("Please note: the old
boys must try harder", June 8)?

Bruce Douglas The Oaks

I believe it appropriate to caution Annabel Crabb, the self-appointed Principal Con Stituency of the
School of Grown-Up Government, about encouraging her pupils to take an interest in foreign affairs.
Why, the whole lot of them may take her literally, going the whole hog jetting off to have pepper steaks
all around the world at taxpayer expense when they could be making ends meet and picking fruit in
Tasmania in their spare time. To quote that great line from Muriel's Wedding: "You're naughty,
Annabel."

Milton Battaglini Carindale

Look both ways

Alan Jones et al broadcast the opinions of the rabid conservative right, so where are the opinions of the
left-of-centre commentators broadcast for balance ("No parroting", The Fitz Files, June 8)?

Sheila Meixner Yass

Leo's final gift

The great irony is that, in donating his organs, Leo Seemanpillai has given more to this country than
Scott Morrison ever will ("What we might learn from Leo", June 8).

Tony Walbran Allambie Heights

Play it straight

Government schools are meant to be secular. Schools need social workers and counsellors, not some
fire-and-brimstone-talking zealots ("Mixed message for gay pupils", June 8).

Peter Miniutti Ashbury

PM V POTUS ON CLIMATE CHANGE

Tony Abbott a man for all seasons

A conservationist, a feminist, the best friend of workers and Medicare ... if Abbott says it, it must be true!
I think he is so poorly of sound mind he actually believes it.

Rebecca facebook.com/sydneymorningherald

Ok, so this is today's beat-up about climate change and the PM. The 30 per cent reduction may be
Obama's target but Congress won't pass it. Germany, Canada and the UK all support jobs before
climate hysteria. Let's have emissions trading when India and China do it, OK?

Dave smh.com.au

Given Abbott classifies loggers as the ultimate conservationists, in his alternate reality this makes quite
a bit of sense.

Rob smh.com.au

Abbott is right and Obama is out of touch with reality. I am an American, by the way.

Jack facebook.com/sydneymorningherald

A country as lucky as ours should be the example on issues such as climate change. Missed
opportunity for Mr Abbott to be taken seriously in the geo-political world.

Jimmy smh.com.au
Good for Abbott, he realises taxing your main energy source increases costs for powering your
businesses and buildings, transporting your food and producing your food. Stupid Labor would push
prices up on everything you buy, drive and eat ...

Martyn facebook.com/sydneymorningherald

Page213of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Removing protection for the GBR, Tasmanian forests, and marine conservation parks are just a few
examples of why Tony is not a conservationist.

Guybrush smh.com.au
Abbott would call himself a teapot in the right company. He says whatever his audience wants to hear
and is untrustworthy.

TruthSeeker twitter.com/smh

It's good to see Abbott travelling the world discussing issues and consulting with foreign friends. Makes
a nice change from the lectures they used to cop from Rudd and Swan. In terms of Abbott being a
conservationist, it might come a surprise to some that you can be both a conservationist and disagree
with the carbon tax at the same time.

Hacka smh.com.au

Hey! How come Abbott doesn't get anything about climate change? I thought he was a great
suppository of knowledge.

Haris facebook.com/sydneymorningherald

Good on Tony for sticking to his guns.

Michael smh.com.au

Like to be a fly on the wall when the President gets his first Great Big Serve of Wacky Abbott logic.

Geronimo smh.com.au

I am confused. Rudd had trouble ratifying Kyoto because of the US? Abbott gets rid of carbon tax and
US are against that? Can't win.

Dean twitter.com/smh

Yes, Abbott takes climate change seriously. Did he tell Obama that he abolished the climate
commission and the climate change authority?

I think not. Another porky slips by.

Shane smh.com.au

That's right, Abbott is perfectly "conserved" like a jar of pickles from 1952

Adriano facebook.com/sydneymorningherald

Good on ya Mr Prime Minister. Hang in there and stand up for what you believe is right and true, most
of us Yanks are doing that. As you can see, the result is a very conflicted and split citizenry here in
America.

Carol smh.com.au

POLES AND WIRES PRIVATISATION

Familiar pitch won't cut it any more

Most of us, who weren't born yesterday, know precisely what will happen. The consumers will be ripped
off unmercifully by the power companies, as they race all the way to the bank. Nothing that is placed in
private hands is ever of benefit to the consumer. I'm not buying your hype, Baird. I've been around too
long for that.

Marilyn smh.com.au

Vic and SA privatised their poles and wires years ago and their power bills are significantly cheaper
than ours. If you have ever worked with or for the public service you would have to appreciate how
inefficient it is.

Bare smh.com.au

Page214of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Let's hope the extra cost incurred through higher costs of electricity is only aimed at Sydney and not the
whole of NSW as they are the only ones getting any benefit from this sale

Amber facebook.com/sydneymorningherald

The consumer & the taxpayers have all greatly benefited from the privatisation of Qantas,
Commonwealth Bank, Telstra, etc. Bring it on, Mr Baird.

Lewis smh.com.au

Get your candles and gas ovens ready.

Deb facebook.com/sydneymorningherald

Seems like a well contemplated proposal - which the city is in dire need of. Let's hope that Baird can
retain and act on his notions.

Lucy twitter.com/smh

This is a con. The LNP have been in power in NSW for over 3 years and achieved very little. They now
expect us to buy this snake oil deal for a second term. Sorry Mr Baird but you will not get my vote.

Glenn smh.com.au

At least Mike is managing to get something done to try to improve the problem. I imagine getting
anything done in the current political environment must be difficult

Houston smh.com.au

Utilities should NEVER be privatised. They must be for the benefit of the community not the vehicle for
big business to profit.

John twitter.com/smh

ON FACEBOOK

(Article: Tributes flow in for Rik Mayall) Very sad news. The Young Ones was my favourite comedy. Rik
was rude and crude and very very funny. Truly one of a kind.

Carol facebook.com/sydneymorningherald

TWEET OF THE WEEK

Canadians luv Aussies and we're polite so nobody will take offense - no worries mate!

Randy

@travelwithrandy

BEST OF THE WEB

What people were reading and watching on smh.com.au

Top stories past week

248,720
Oil rig worker Mike McKay loses job after MH370 'fire in the sky' report

Top videos past week

98,631

Comedian Rik Mayall dies at age 56

161,738 Jennifer Lopez kicks off Brazil World Cup in opening ceremony

146,929 Tony Abbott seeks alliance to thwart President Obama on climate change policy

126,685 How the GFC killed GenX's retirement

Page215of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.117,041 Coalition bets on rail crossing and need for speed to sway voters

70,979 MH370: families raise reward money

69,956 Tony Abbott's 'Canadia' slip

63,458 Canada and Australia 'like family': Abbott

34,245 Ricky Muir fumbles through interview

Write to us at letters@sunherald.com.au Facebook: facebook.com/sydneymorningherald
facebook.com/smhstudent Twitter: @smh @smhsport @BusinessDay Join the conversation at
smh.com.au/comment Letters Editor: Marc McEvoy Forum: Brittany Ruppert

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | nswals : New
South Wales
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SHD0000020140615ea6f00035

Page216of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.