Deals data signals Asian tech boom

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Information
Deals data signals Asian tech boom

James Hutchinson
528 words
13 May 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
21
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

The public listing of Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba in New York could be the start of increased
investment and acquisition activity in Asian markets this year, technology investors have predicted.
Statistics compiled by Internet DealBook, the publishing arm of investment firm Right Click Capital,
indicated the average value of acquisitions in the Asia-Pacific region rose 334 per cent during the first
three months of 2014, compared with the same time last year.

The number of deals in the region declined slightly, by 12 per cent, compared with a 14 per cent decline
in the United States and 26 per cent increase in Europe.
Right Click Capital partner Benjamin Chong said that while Facebook's acquisition of WhatsApp and
Google buying Nest dominated headlines, an increasing number of acquisition and investment deals
were being done outside of Europe and the United States.

"I think we're going to see more activity in the Asia Pacific region, particularly for Australia," Mr Chong
said. "The uptake of technology is very high, so you're seeing people actually skipping what may have
been the old school wired networks, and going straight to wireless. And people are starting to spend
more which is commensurate with their growing incomes. "The opportunity is for us not to forget a lot of
Asia is in our time zone and to somehow take advantage of that."
Alibaba, the e-commerce giant, has said it hopes to raise $US1 billion from a public listing in New
York, but analysts estimate that the initial pubic offering could yield up to $US15 billion to
$US16 billion initially, beating out Facebook for the largest ever public listing.

But Mr Chong said Alibaba's float was likely the first in a line of Asian companies seeking investment
outside of their traditional markets, and lead to public listings in the US and Australia.

The investment could also prompt increasing activity for Australian technology companies into Asia,
particularly those developing social and e-commerce technologies.
Mr Chong pointed to Mig33, a mobile gaming and social company that listed on the ASX through a
mining back-door, as an example. Foxconn technology, the Chinese manufacturer of Apple and other
consumer electronics, recently agreed to buy a 19.9 per cent stake in the business.

"[The Alibaba IPO] is going to make it easier for fledgling Asian companies to get access to public
markets, there's no doubt about that," Mr Chong said. "We can see some of the early signs with the
Asian-focused companies listed on the ASX. "Investors here want to bank that and in some ways we
have an advantage here being closer than some of the folks who have to travel across the Pacific."
Globally, Internet Dealbook tracked a total $US26.5 billion in value across 855 investments and
acquisitions during the first quarter of 2014, up 166 per cent on the same period last year, excluding
Facebook's $US19 billion acquisition of WhatsApp.

Page48of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The statistics indicate a significant boost in acquisition values, increasing from $3 billion during the
first quarter of 2013 to $16.5 billion a year later.

CO
IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

alibab : Alibaba.com Corporation
iebus : E-business (B2B) | iecom : E-commerce | iint : Internet/Online | itech : Technology
c1711 : Initial Public Offerings | c18 : Ownership Changes | cacqu : Acquisitions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | c02 : Corporate Changes | c14 : Stock Listings | c17 : Funding/Capital |
c171 : Share Capital | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140512ea5d0000l

Page49of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.