No knowing just what Solly’s up to at DJs

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

MarketWatch
No knowing just what Solly’s up to at DJs

TIM BOREHAM, CRITERION
836 words
19 June 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
25
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Premier Investments (PMV) $8.47, David Jones (DJS) $3.90 WHILE Solomon Lew pursues his
cunning David Jones plan — so wily that it doesn’t make sense to most observers — the smart
money is on an earnings downgrade from the Lew-controlled apparel retailer, Premier Investments.

But is a profit warning built into Premier’s share price already? According to UBS, seven
consumer-oriented stocks have downgraded in the past three weeks and there’s no reason to think
Premier has emerged unscathed.

On the firm’s sums, Premier is trading on a multiple of 8.9 times forecast 2014-15 earnings, on an
enterprise value to EBIT basis.
This excludes Premier’s $202 million of net cash and its $206m Breville Groupstake.

Excluding stationery chain Smiggle and jim-jams group Peter Alexander, Premier’s core brands —
Just Jeans, Dotti, Jay Jays, Portmans and Jacquie E — are trading on a multiple of as little as
1.4-4.4 times.

Global peers trade on an average 11.6 times earnings and UBS says seven times would be more
appropriate for Premier.
As for DJs, Lew is playing a poker game predicated on the notion that his $200m stake (9 per cent
and possibly more) is enough to thwart Woolworths of South Africa’s $4-a-share takeover proposal.
If Lew has the firepower to stymie the bid — and does so — he risks a nasty loss as his DJs shares
tumble in value.

Assuming the pennywise Lew won’t launch his own offer, his gambit seems to be more about
extracting something from Woolworths pertaining to his 11.7 per cent stake in the
Woolworths-controlled Country Road.

But if your “enemy” is convinced you wouldn’t dare trigger your nuclear weapon, you might as well
leave it in the bunker.

Criterion’s dumb money is on the offer prevailing, with Solly selling out for a tidy profit. We rate DJs a
sell and Premier a buy.

Cover-More Group (CVO) $1.90 WE were too dumb to pick up on it at the time, too: a quasi
downgrade from the travel insurer was on the cards after Flight Centre last week subtly tweaked
expectations.

Flight Centre is Cover-More’s distribution partner, accounting for up to half of Cover-More’s premium
revenue and a quarter of earnings.

Cover-More yesterday stuck to full-year EBITDA guidance of $50.1m, but noted the “obvious
slowdown in the Australian leisure sector over the past two months’’.

Page249of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Flight Centre guided to the lower end of its stated range, as near as dammit to a downgrade for the
market darling.

Cover-More shares debuted at $2 a share in December, trading below par before eventually finding
favour.

We rated the stock a buy at $1.98 in March and maintain the call as management tackles the
Chinese market in alliance with oriental agent Qunar.
Ambassador Oil & Gas (AQO) 36.5c and others GONE are the times when junior resources
chairmen could sign off on a cosy merger deal and then drink away the theoretical synergy benefits
at the Croesus Club.

These days, someone always comes along to upset the mutual backslapping. Take the two-way
tussle for the hitherto sleepy Ambassador Oil & Gas, which sees spurned US bidder Magnum
Hunter hauling its target to the takeovers umpire.
Drillsearch, Ambassador’s preferred bidder, on Monday disclosed it had lifted its Ambassador stake
from 19.9 per cent to 52.6 per cent. Given the unconditional nature of the offer, this would usually
mean game over.
Magnum has asked the Takeovers Panel to freeze Drillsearch’s acceptances. The company argues
a cohort of Ambassador holders (including chairman David Shaw and MD Guistino Gugliemlo) in
effect gave Drillsearch control before Magnum could get a look in.
Meanwhile, Roc Oil (ROC, 55c) and Horizon Oil(HZN, 38c) used a UBS resources talkfest to talk up
their merger of equals, bitterly opposed by insto holder Allan Gray.

As acquirer, Roc holders are not required to vote on the deal. But Allan Gray’s peeved Simon Marais
has called a July 11 EGM to seek support to change Roc’s constitution and block the deal.
In iron ore, Aquila Resources’(AQA, 36.5c) dominant holder Tony Poli yesterday affirmed his
support for Aurizon/Baosteel’s $3.40-a-share cash offer for the iron ore and coal developer.

This leaves belated bidder Mineral Resources — which offered a scrip equivalent of $3.75 a share
— “considering its options’’.

The three tussles show that agreed deals can be anything but. While it’s nice for the target’s
shareholders to be the focus of an auction, they should expect delays and complications.

We suggest taking profits on Ambassador and Aquila and holding Roc and Horizon.The Australian
accepts no responsibility for stock recommendations. Readers should contact a licensed financial
adviser. The author does not hold shares in the companies mentioned.

housin : Breville Group Limited | premit : Premier Investments Ltd | djsaus : David Jones Ltd | wlhdsa
: Woolworths Holdings Limited | wwrths : Precient Limited
i61 : Wholesalers | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i656 : Mixed Retailing | i6560002 : Department Stores |
i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | iretail : Retail
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat
: Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry
News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140618ea6j0001e

CO

IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page250of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.