Regulator lacks resources to enforce foreign home buyer restrictions

HD
BY
WC 935 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

Regulator lacks resources to enforce foreign home buyer restrictions

By business reporter Michael Janda

30 May 2014
Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC) News
ABCNEW
English
(c) 2014 Australian Broadcasting Corporation

TD

A parliamentary committee has heard that regulators are largely relying on the honesty of purchasers to
enforce restrictions on foreign housing investment.

that the House of Representatives Economics Committee would examine the levels of foreign investment
in Australian residential real estate, and how effectively rules around it were being enforced.

Australia has strict rules limiting what types of residential property people can buy if they're not citizens
or permanent residents.
Non-residents can only buy newly built properties and, while temporary residents can buy an existing
home, they must be living in it and sell it when they move out of the country.
On today's first morning of hearings, Foreign Investment Review Board (FIRB) and Treasury officials
admitted that, while the rules are in place, only a handful of staff monitor whether they are being complied
with in thousands of transactions a year.
"The Foreign Investment Review Board on residential real estate has eight staff," the board's chairman
Brian Wilson told the committee.
Mr Wilson said that means FIRB largely relies on the buyers declaring their purchase, as state land titles
offices generally do not check a real estate purchaser's residency status.

"The only state land titles office that has a foreign or domestic tick in it is Queensland. None of the others
do," he added.

Ways around the rules
Mr Wilson also pointed out that there are many ways a foreign buyer can purchase a property that they
are not allowed to and FIRB does not have the resources to check all the transactions.

"The properties can be bought in all sorts of ways: they can be bought by individuals; they can be bought
by trustees, disclosed or not; they can be bought by corporations; they can be bought by friends, family
members, relatives, solicitors, etc," he said.

"To be absolutely certain we had all the data about the actual, certain identity of the buyer, to match
[FIRB] approvals to actual transactions would be a very heavy manual exercise."

Mr Wilson added that, in order to perform such in depth analysis of millions of tax returns, the Australian
Tax Office has over 20,000 staff, versus the eight FIRB has in its real estate section.

Labor MP Pat Conroy questioned whether there were any ways to penalise people who helped foreign
buyers skirt the rules.
"Are there any obligations on real estate agents or anyone else to be part of this process?" he asked
Treasury's John Hill.

"It's a good question. The answer is no. The foreign person that acquires the interest is the individual that
is captured by our regulatory system," Mr Hill responded.

Page264of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.'Stern' talking to for breaches

Given these handicaps, it is perhaps not surprising that there are few prosecutions for breaching the
foreign investment rules around housing.

The committee's chairwoman, Liberal MP Kelly O'Dwyer, wanted to know exactly how many prosecutions
had taken place.

"Over time, since the most recent penalties have been in place since 2010, how often have they been
used?" she asked Mr Hill.

"We don't operate at that point very often. In fact its very rare that we will exercise prosecution activity," he
responded.

When people are caught out breaking the rules, Mr Hill said they are generally asked to arrange their
affairs so they comply - typically by selling the offending property, or by moving into the home if they are
a temporary resident.

"We would certainly speak very sternly to the individuals concerned and say that this is a situation we
don’t want to continue and we will follow it very closely," he said.

Mr Hill says most foreign owners caught out and asked to comply with the rules generally do so within
months.

If they do not, a fine of up to $85,000 is available for individuals, and several times that amount for
corporations.

People who break the law also face potential jail time.

However, given the lack of investigative resources, the rarity of prosecutions and the size of the maximum
fine, one committee member questioned whether some overseas investors may view the potential
penalties as simply a cost of doing business.

FIRB doesn't measure 'actual investment'

Treasury's Jonathan Rollings acknowledged that the huge holes in data collection mean FIRB's figures -
often quoted by real estate analysts to highlight what they say is the relatively small amount of overseas
purchases - are very unreliable to measure total foreign investment, much of which may not be declared.

"The focus of the FIRB has never really been on trying to measure actual investment, we are essentially
reporting our activities, and I think this is where the challenge lies for people seeking more information on
what actually happens," he said.

However, FIRB's chairman Brian Wilson says he does not think foreign investors make up as much of the
market as many people think, and the media report.
"Very often where we might get a call that says 'a Chinese has bought this house and my daughter wasn't
able to do so', and it's investigated, yes they are of Chinese background but they're a citizen. They live
here," he said.
"We also have 450,000 legal temporary residents in Australia - they're entitled to buy a house under the
rules. That's 2 per cent of the population."

However, until there is better data, it is hard to know how much supposed foreign home buying is
mistaken identity, and how much is in breach of the rules.

IN

NS

irreal : Residential Real Estate | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ireest :
Real Estate
c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News |
ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
IPD Foreign
PUB Australian Broadcasting Corporation
AN

Document ABCNEW0020140530ea5u00062

Page265of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.