Golden year for DAIRY STALWART

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Magazine
Golden year for DAIRY STALWART

909 words
8 May 2014
Stock Journal
FSTOCJ
27
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

A CITY boy turned dairy cattle identity, Allan Peglar grew up at Broadview the son and grandson of
carpenters and developed his passion for agriculture while attending Nailsworth Primary School.

This led him to complete his secondary schooling at Urrbrae Agricultural High School, setting him up for
a life in the rural sector.

What is most remarkable about Allan's career path is that he has spent its entirely with Landmark in all
its different forms from Bennett & Fisher when he originally joined the company in June 1964, through
all the different mergers and sales, right up to what it is known as today.

His career in the 'stock and station' game as it was known started at Strathalbyn in the merchandise
department before he graduated to the accounts and branch book-keeping department.

Then came a change of scenery.

"In 1966 I was transferred to Cleve where I had to learn the books and take them over for the Lock,
Wudinna and Elliston branches," Allan said.

"So I drove across in the old Holden FJ to Lock and lived with the Tiller family at Warrachie before I was
called up to do national service with the army in 1967."
Allan's links with the dairy industry started to emerge in 1968 when he married Dianne, daughter of
Macclesfield dairyfarmer Jim Dugmore.

They relocated back to Strathalbyn in 1969, before Allan had stints at Mount Barker and then
Bordertown as an auctioneer, where they stayed until January 1979.

When Bennett & Fisher merged with Southern Farmers, the newly formed Bennetts Farmers wanted to
form a dairy division, and Allan was invited to be a part of it.

"David Blackmore, who is well-known for his Wagyu cattle now, was the manager of that and I was the
dairy cattle auctioneer," Allan said.
That appointment led to Allan becoming involved with buying and selling dairy livestock for the past 35
years with much of his current business made up of selling dairy heifers for the live export trade.
"In August 1990, after the Wesfarmers-Dalgety merger, I was given the state franchise of the dairy
division, which is when we started trading as AN&D Peglar Pty Ltd and still do.
He recalls many dairy cattle selling highlights, among them prominent herd dispersals where he was a
settling agent.
"Some of the most memorable dispersals included the Onkavale Holsteins sale in 1986, account of the
Fechner family, which set a record at the time for the highest price paid for a cow Onkavale Ultimate
Shaynen at $17,000," Allan said.

Page41of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."The Rockridge Holsteins dispersal in 2004, account of Peter and Helen Maxwell, set a new state
record of $26,000 for Rockridge Storm Sultan, bought by Cindy Padman, Meningie, and in Jack
Bramley's Paravale Holsteins dispersal sale in 2010 another Rockridge cow Rockridge Ladino Shantell
made $25,000, outlaid by John Gardiner, Avonlea Holsteins, Five Ways, Vic."
Another highlight was the stud dairy bull and female sale at Strathalbyn in May each year, which Allan
was instrumental in setting up.

Those sales started in May 1979, and were run until May 2006.

Allan also highly rates the national classic sales which used to be held at Mount Pleasant on Friday
nights, following the Autumn Fair judging.

These sales gave him a chance to combine work and pleasure, with his love of the Holstein breed in
particular starting in the 1980s when he joined the state breed committee.

He has since been an active member of the breed society, particularly at the Royal Adelaide Show. His
involvement with dairy cattle at the Royal led to his long-serving volunteer award last year.
"I was always interested in stud dairy cattle and in the early years there were very good studs around
Yankalilla, so I got very interested in the Holstein breed then," Allan said.

"The demand for the Holstein was just so strong that if you were going be in the game then you had to
be breeding Holsteins.
"I was always taken with the ability of the cow to produce a lot of milk.
"They have style, beauty and production ability, but I like all dairy cattle, really."

This Holstein affinity rubbed off on his son David, who started the Sleepy Hollow Holstein stud when he
was 12 with foundation cow Jaylea Superstar Maggie that Allan bought from Jack and Lorna Adams'
Jaylea Holsteins stud at Mannum.

The Peglars ran their own venture in dairying for 10 years, leasing land at Hindmarsh Tiers before they
conducted their own dispersal sale in 2003, with 67 cows from Sleepy Hollow averaging about $2668.

It now seems that Holstein passion is carrying on to a third generation, with Allan's grandson Mason a
regular participant at shows and youth camps.
Allan, who will celebrate his milestone over the June long weekend, is confident the dairy industry is in
good hands.
"I'm pretty optimistic about the dairy industry's future and I think there's a light in the tunnel for sure,"
he said. "I say this cautiously, but the job does look quite bright and I think it's going to be alright.
"There is a lot of interest in our products from overseas China in particular so I think the future for dairy
is looking as good as it has for many years."

NS
RE
PUB
AN

gedu : Education | gscho : School | gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | saustr : South Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FSTOCJ0020140507ea580001n

Page42of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.