Chinese group snaps up Parramatta site

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Chinese group snaps up Parramatta site

GREG BROWN, LISA ALLEN
307 words
13 August 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
26
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

DEVELOPMENT: A Shanghai-based property group is poised to develop more than $600 million
worth of apartments in Sydney’s west after it outbid local giant Meriton Apartments last night.
It is understood the Chinese group paid more than $120m for the site, on Victoria and Wharf Road in
Melrose Park, acquiring it from the Parramatta City Council.

The Asian group, which could not be identified, had already bought three small sites in Australia with
the Melrose Park purchase its largest.
Under the deal the buyer has insisted on a short settlement on the site, which could sustain more than
1000 apartments, sources said.
Chinese developer Yuhu Group was also a bidder at the Melrose Park land parcel, which is about
17km from the Sydney CBD and is 2km from the shopping centre hub of West Ryde. The deal was
negotiated by Colliers International’s Harry Bui and Guillaume Volz.
Chinese developers are becoming more active in Sydney’s western suburbs as many see it as a key
growth area.
Development company Country Garden launched into the apartment market in February when it
bought a site in Ryde, in the city’s northwest, for $73m. The group is building 800 apartments at the
$500m project called Ryde Gardens.

Johnson Zhang, Country Garden Australia’s managing director, told The Australian in June that the
group would look to buy more sites in the western suburbs. “It is part of Country Garden’s strategy
where we usually do not pick spots too close to the city,” Mr Zhang said.In Parramatta, Starryland is
busy selling apartments in its local project, the $550 million Parramatta Promenade complex. When
finished, the 5ha site will have up to 11 towers, ranging from three to 12 storeys, featuring 774
apartments in total.

IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

i5010022 : Residential Building Construction | i501 : Building Construction | iconst : Construction | icre :
Real Estate/Construction
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | china : China | sydney : Sydney | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific |
asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | nswals : New
South Wales
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140812ea8d0001y

Page76of239©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.