BNZ's Tony Alexander – Weekly Overview November 27 2014

HD
WC 578 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

BNZ's Tony Alexander – Weekly Overview November 27 2014

27 November 2014
LiveNews.co.nz
LIVNEW
English
Copyright 2014. Multimedia Investments Ltd. All Rights Reserved

MIL OSI - Source: BNZ Weekly Overview by Tony Alexander - Release/Analysis

Headline: BNZ's Tony Alexander - Weekly Overview November 27 2014

TD

Saving More

Many things have changed since the GFC of 2008-09 and one day I may attempt a listing of the ones
which come to mind - such things as debt aversion, heightened sensitivity to interest rates, price sensitivity
but not increased aversion to investing in residential property. This week we received information
confirming that Kiwi household savings behaviour has changed.

The following graph shows the household savings rate improving firmly from 2007 as we eased off from a
big spending splurge, and moving into positive territory from the year ending March 2010. The rate has
now been positive for five years though there is no increase underway. The latest rate is 2.1%, the worst
rate was -7% in 2003. What will be interesting to see is if this positive rate will be sustained once people
start feeling more confident about their employment and perhaps start spending some of the paper wealth
gained from rising house prices in our two biggest cities. Did you know that since the start of 2009
average house sale prices in Auckland and Christchurch have gained 46% and 41% respectively.

Keep an eye on Auckland in the coming year. The pace of price rises looks like it might accelerate not just
because of the migration boom, new outlook for low interest rates, and the worsening shortage, but a new
flood of Chinese buying is likely as the Australian’s are on the cusp of radically tightening rules and
enforcement of rules around foreign residential property purchasing.

Monetary Policy Easing Offshore

In another example of how central banks are having to adjust their settings in response to growth
surprising on the weak side, last Friday the People’s Bank of China cut its two key interest rates for the
first time in two years. The main rate, the One Year Benchmark Lending Rate, has been cut from 6% to
5.6% while the One Year Benchmark Deposit Rate has been cut from 3% to 2.75%.

BNZ WEEKLY OVERVIEW
The move followed news from HSBC of a further fall in their largely small company-focussed Purchasing
Managers Index to a neutral reading of 50 in November (preliminary) from 50.4 in October. The result
means no manufacturing sector growth and reinforces the chances of GDP growth this year in China
coming in below the official target of 7.5% with the latest pace being 7.3% in the September quarter - not
that one should consider the numbers to be accurate in a country where greater emphasis is given to
preserving social harmony than delivering statistical accuracy.
That emphasis perhaps explains why in Brisbane last week the Chinese President acted politely while the
US President slammed his hosts for not doing enough in his opinion to preserve the Great Barrier Reef. In
just one week the status of China in the Pacific has been handily elevated while the US President has
rubbed people the wrong way. Thankfully no-one offshore considers we have anything here of global
significance for them to weigh in on or we could find ourselves indignant and challenged as well like the
Australians. Except cows. Imagine how wealthy we could be if we could get Chinese consumers hooked
on sugar-enhanced chocolate milk!

Click here for the full report (pdf).

NS

ereal : Real Estate Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News

Page75of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
IPD 24/7 News
PUB Multimedia Investments Ltd
AN

Document LIVNEW0020141128eabr00022

Page76of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.