BHP flags split to spur buyers

BHP flags split to spur buyers

The Australian

HD
CR
WC 908 words
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

1 April 2014
23:00
theAustralian.com.au
NLAUSW
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

TD

BHP Billiton has introduced competitive tension into its long-planned divestment of non-core aluminium,
coal and nickel assets.
The introduction of a demerger as a firm divestment option comes as private equity funds are variously
said to be holding $US15bn-$US50bn for investment in resource assets, most notably those to be
discarded by BHP and Rio Tinto under its parallel strategy of shedding non-core assets.

BHP is out to extract best value from its proposed divestments and including the demerger option is a
clear signal to cashed-up but reticent PE resources funds and trade buyers that now is the time to come
forward with proposals.
Assets that could make their way into a demerged company — or be sold off to trade buyers or PE funds
— include aluminium in Australia and Africa, nickel in Australia and Colombia, manganese in Australia
and South Africa, thermal coal in South Africa and New Mexico, and the Cannington silver/lead/zinc mine
in Queensland.

While some, such as Cannington and the Cerro Matoso nickel mine in Colombia, are strong performers
and have real trade and PE fund appeal, the task of finding buyers for the other collection of assets is
more of a challenge. The demerger option at least creates a more diversified portfolio, one where the
differing price cycles of the commodities could appeal to BHP shareholders with a holding in what would
be tantamount to a “mini me’’ BHP.
The planned divestment of assets considered non-core to BHP’s four “pillars’’ of iron ore, copper,
petroleum and coking coal was first flagged by its previous chief executive, Marius Kloppers.

The simplification strategy has been adopted with gusto by new chief executive Andrew Mackenzie, who
has also confirmed continued heavy investment in Canadian potash as BHP’s potential fifth pillar.

BHP has used the demerger process in the past to get rid of unwanted assets — the long products
business of OneSteel in 2000, which was followed by the demerger of the flat steel business into
BlueScope.

Speculation that the demerger of assets that fall outside its current four pillars was now under active
consideration was not dismissed by BHP yesterday.
Rather than waiting for a query from the ASX, the company took it upon itself to indirectly confirm the
demerger talk by not dismissing it out of hand. But it made clear that a demerger was only one of the
options under consideration, and that no decision on the best way to achieve its simplification ambitions
had been made.
Individual asset sales to trade buyers or emerging and well-funded private equity funds, such as the X2
Resources fund headed by former BHP finance chief and later Xstrata chief executive Mick Davis, are
considered by the market to be the likeliest outcome.

In response to the market speculation on the demerger, BHP said that “simplification of our portfolio is a
priority and is something we have pursued for several years’’.

Page294of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“In the last two years alone, the group has announced or completed divestments in Australia, the United
States, Canada, South Africa and the United Kingdom, including petroleum, copper, coal, mineral sands,
uranium and diamond assets.’’

The remaining non-core assets are yet to go down the same path flags because they are difficult to sell.
Their appeal sitting inside a demerged organisation without the cashflow to meet long-term sustaining
capital requirements is why the demerger option has not received much of an airing until now.
“We believe that a portfolio focused on our major iron ore, copper, coal and petroleum assets would
retain the benefits of diversification, generate stronger growth in free cashflow and a superior return on
investment,” BHP said.

“By increasing our focus on these four pillars, with potash as a potential fifth, we will be able to more
quickly improve the productivity and performance of our largest businesses,’’ BHP said.

It said it would actively study the next phase of simplification, including structural options, but will pursue
only options that maximise value for BHP shareholders. “Any course of action remains subject to detailed
review and an assessment of alternatives,’’ BHP said.
The common feature of the key assets up for sale is that with the exception of manganese in Australia
and South Africa, the Cannington base and precious metals mine in Queensland, they all are struggling
because of weak prices, most notably aluminium and nickel.
The rise of aluminium smelting and nickel processing in China has changed the global industry’s cost
curve.

In essence, a demerger to shareholders — they could presumably opt out in or out — would be offering
them the worst of the BHP businesses, shored up here and there by a profitable Cannington and
manganese business, and a thermal coal business that could have better days with more cost-cutting.

The suggested $US20bn value of the demerger option was widely discounted by analysts. A research
note by Macquarie last month put a fair value on the aluminium business of $US3.67bn and $US4.6bn for
nickel.
Manganese was put at $US3.84bn and the non-core coal assets came in at $874 million. Cannington
was said to have a fair value of $1.8bn.

That comes to less than $US15bn, but BHP could enhance any demerger with some cash. But that would
fly in the face of BHP’s plan to increase returns to shareholders through share buybacks/dividend
increases.

CO bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC
IN
NS

i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
cspin : Spin-offs | cacqu : Acquisitions | c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 :
Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB News Ltd.
AN

Document NLAUSW0020140401ea41000ji

Search Summary

Text

((chin* or hong kong)) and (
( (residential or site or commercial) and (casino resort or island or hotel or apartment
or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company or board or entitys) and
(transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) )
or
( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron or lead
or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or stake or
equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or firm or
company))
or
( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or equity
or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group or firm or

Page295of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.board) and (million* or billion* or B or M))
)
not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall Street
or Forex or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex)
and re=austr
01/01/2014 to 30/04/2014
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
2,564
29 August 2018 1:13

Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found
Timestamp

Page296of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.