Transaction values to `surge'

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Finance
Transaction values to `surge'

GREG BROWN
275 words
18 January 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
1 - All-round Country
21
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

PROPERTY: The value of transactions in the Australian commercial property sector is expected
to run hot this year after a bumper 2013, with sales in the year to December reaching a record
$US21.9 billion ($24.9bn), according to real estate firmJones Lang LaSalle.

These levels were up 33 per cent from 2012, with local and foreign investors battling one another
for assets, buoyed by low interest rates and a falling Australian dollar.

The December quarter was especially strong, with transaction volumes reaching $US6.4bn, up 69
per cent on the final quarter of 2012.

Analysts say that the development activity was a major contributor to investment volume growth,
while foreign-listed real estate investment trusts became more active in the latter part of the year.
Commercial property investment was also at record levels in the Asia-Pacific region, reaching
$US126.7bn by year end, an increase of 29 per cent.
The growth was driven by the region's core markets of Australia, Japan, China and Singapore, with
all countries well up on last year's levels.

Jones Lang LaSalle head of capital markets Stuart Crow said the results were higher than expected
and activity should increase further this year.
``Unrelenting demand has prevailed in spite of macro concerns around China's growth outlook,
stability in the EU and the US government's fiscal strategy,'' Mr Crow said.
Savills head of research Tony Crabb said that high competition for commercial property assets
would underpin growth this year.
He said the property sector would benefit from a rebalancing economy, and broader-based growth
would replace resource-dominated growth.

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
usa : United States | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz :
North America
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140117ea1i0001u

Page57of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.