Asian Stocks Rise On US Cues

SE
HD
WC 1,051 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

Business
Asian Stocks Rise On US Cues

19 August 2014
RTT News
RTTNEW
English
© 2014 NoticiasFinancieras. All Rights Reserved.

TD

(RTTNews) - Asian stocks rose broadly on Tuesday, with sentiment boosted by better-than-expected U.S.
housing data and easing concerns over global conflicts from Ukraine to Gaza and Iraq. Encouraging
corporate earnings from the region and expectations for a continuation of ultra-loose monetary policy also
helped underpin investors' risk appetite.
Chinese shares hit a fresh eight-month high, led by gains in media stocks after President Xi Jinping called
for the country to build a homegrown new media industry that is strong, influential and credible. The
benchmark Shanghai Composite index finished up 0.26 percent at 2,245.33. Hong Kong's Hang Seng
index rose 0.67 percent to 25,122.95 after casino operator Galaxy Entertainment Group reported
second-quarter earnings that beat analyst estimates.

Japanese shares climbed to a two-week high, with exporter stocks leading the way as the yen weakened
on the back of upbeat U.S. housing data and easing geopolitical concerns. The benchmark Nikkei
average rose 0.83 percent to 15,449.79, extending gains for the seventh day, while the broader Topix
index advanced 0.7 percent. Heavyweight SoftBank Corp rallied 2 percent, Fast Retailing added half a
percent, Fanuc advanced 1.9 percent, Panasonic rose 0.4 percent, Hitachi gained 0.8 percent and Canon
closed up 0.6 percent.

Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings, Mitsubishi Estate, Daikin Industries, Pacific Metals, Nisshin Steel and
Pioneer Corp climbed 2-8 percent. Shares of Sharp Corp. rose 2.2 percent and Sony Corp. added 1.9
percent on reports the companies will jointly develop smartphones for sale in the U.S. Mitsubishi Heavy
Industries rallied nearly 3 percent after winning a subway contract in Brazil. Chugai Pharmaceutical Co.
fell 2.1 percent on profit taking after rallying over 15 percent the day before.

Australian shares rose for a fourth consecutive session as investors cheered some upbeat earnings
results from companies such as Toll Holdings, IAG and Amcor. The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index
gained 0.7 percent to close at 5,623.8. BHP Billiton rose 1.4 percent to a three-year closing high. After
market hours, the mining giant posted a 23.2 percent jump in annual net profit to US$13.83 billion,
slightly higher than the US$13.6 billion forecast by analysts. Rival Rio Tinto advanced 1.6 percent and
Fortescue Metals Group climbed 2.2 percent.

In the banking sector, Commonwealth Bank of Australia dropped 1.7 percent on going ex-dividend. NAB
slid 0.9 percent, while ANZ rose 0.8 percent and Westpac added 1.6 percent. Insurance Australia Group
rose half a percent. The nation's largest general insurer lifted its full-year net profit by 59 percent to $1.23
billion. Steel and mining group Arrium soared 12 percent as it reported an 83 per cent jump in full-year
underlying net profit.

Transport and logistics provider Toll Holdings jumped 5 percent after more than tripling its full-year profit.
Amcor shares rallied 4.6 percent. The packaging firm forecast higher earnings for the current year on the
back of further growth in both emerging and developed markets. Shares of medical centre and pathology
services provider Sonic Healthcare dropped 1.1 percent. CEO Colin Goldschmidt told analysts that the
company's revenues from its Australian business had already been affected due to confusion about the
introduction of a $7 co-payment for GP visits.
On the economic front, the Reserve Bank of Australia's August meeting minutes showed that the board
expects inflation to remain consistent with its 2-3 percent target over the next two years despite recent
higher readings. The central bank reaffirmed its stance that the current monetary policy was appropriately
configured and remained accommodative and supportive of demand.Separately, the results of a survey by

Page30of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.ANZ Bank and Roy Morgan Research showed that their consumer confidence index for Australia rose to
112.5 in the week ended August 17, from 108.5 in the previous week.

Seoul shares rallied to a two-week high on broad-based buying as investor sentiment was buoyed by
signs of progress in the Berlin talks to bring about a ceasefire in Ukraine. The benchmark Kospi average
jumped 0.88 percent to 2,071.14, crossing the 2,070 point level for the first time in two weeks. Market
heavyweight Samsung Electronics rose 0.3 percent, Hyundai Motor edged up 0.2 percent and SK
Telecom rallied 3.4 percent. In economic news, producer prices in South Korea rose 0.2 percent
year-over-year in July following the 0.1 percent increase in June, a report from the Bank of Korea showed.

New Zealand shares rose sharply, with companies exposed to the Australian economy pacing the gainers
as the kiwi dollar weakened against the Australian dollar. The benchmark NZX-50 index rose 0.85 percent
to finish at 5,114.21, a two-week high. Fletcher Building rose 0.4 percent ahead of its annual results
tomorrow, Xero soared almost 8 percent after recent losses and Spark New Zealand, formerly known as
Telecom Corp., advanced 2 percent. A2 Milk Co dropped 1.5 percent ahead of Fonterra Cooperative
Group's GlobalDairyTrade auction tomorrow.

In economic releases, inflation expectations for the upcoming year decreased during the third quarter, the
results of a survey published by the Reserve Bank of New Zealand showed. Another report from Statistics
New Zealand showed that falling dairy prices dragged down producer prices in the second quarter.

Elsewhere, the Taiwan Weighted average added 1.1 percent, while the benchmark indexes in India,
Indonesia and Singapore were up about 0.2 percent each.

The major U.S. averages rose about a percent each overnight, with the tech-heavy Nasdaq rising to its
highest level in over fourteen years, as investors focused on corporate deal news and reports of
diplomatic efforts to broker a cease-fire in eastern Ukraine. In economic news, confidence among U.S.
homebuilders, a key driver of economic growth, rose to its highest level in seven months in August due to
a strong labor market and declining mortgage reports, the NAHB report showed.

For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com

Copyright(c) 2014 RTTNews.com. All Rights Reserved

CO intphk : Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd | houinv : K. Wah Group | kwahst : K. Wah International Holdings

IN

NS

RE

Ltd
i81402 : Commercial Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | i97912 :
Gambling Industries | ilea : Leisure/Arts/Hospitality
c1522 : Share Price Movement/Disruptions | npress : Press Releases | c15 : Performance | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter |
nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | skorea : South Korea | namz : North America | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific |
asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | easiaz : Eastern Asia

PUB Global Network Content Services LLC
AN

Document RTTNEW0020140819ea8j002s1

Page31of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.