TITLE DEEDS Local pays top price for Medich mansion INSIDE STORY visits Byron Bay

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Domain
TITLE DEEDS Local pays top price for Medich mansion INSIDE STORY visits Byron Bay

LUCY MACKEN
1,330 words
14 June 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
6
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

But controversy surrounding the vendor was enough to turn away several Chinese buyers.
Mystery surrounds the identity of the buyer who purchased the Point Piper waterfront mansion of
property developer Ron Medich and his former wife Odetta this week.

This year's highest sale - at just over $37 million - is all the more intriguing given that agents Ken
Jacobs, of Christie's, and Bill Malouf, of LJ Hooker Double Bay, will confirm only that the buyer was
an Australian.

The $40 million listing was never an easy one to get over the line given buyer reticence over Medich's
forthcoming trial in connection with the 2009 murder of his business associate Michael McGurk. That
controversy was enough to turn off more than one cashed-up buyer from China.

Savills' Martin Schiller introduced the "local" buyer, with speculation over how local is local. Other
sources point to Network Seven's commercial director Bruce McWilliam, but that rumour was quickly
scotched by McWilliam, who bought Medich's investment waterfront property down the road last
October for $10.65 million.
Ron Medich and Odetta bought the property in 2003 for $15.5 million from restaurateur Wolfie
Pizem.

- - -

Natalie Imbruglia has closed a chapter on her Sydney life, selling her North Bondi townhouse on the
quiet for $1.22 million.
Imbruglia bought the Blair Street property for $660,000 in 2000, soon after she and former husband
Daniel Johns first hooked up.

The singer, songwriter and Neighbours alumni is now based in London pursuing an acting career,
recently appearing at the Theatre Royal Bath in the play Things We Do For Love.
The three-bedroom investment sold to a local couple before McGrath's Damien Steele could take it
to auction.

- - -

Kristy Hinze and her billionaire husband Jim Clark have relaunched their Point Piper waterfront
apartment to the market with hopes of more than $7.5 million ahead of its July 8 auction.

Now listed with Jaime Upton, of Alison Coopes, the three-bedroom spread comes with a cinema
room, gym and opulent high-end finishes. Hinze and Clark, the Texas-born founder of Netscape,
bought the 317-square-metre apartment in 2009 for $7.6 million from receivers PPB Advisory after
the developer Michael Bezzina, of Bezzina Group, went into liquidation.

Page12of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The couple recently announced they are expecting a sibling for their daughter Dylan, due in
September.

- - -
UBS's Hong Kong-based senior banker Matt Hanning and his wife Jessica are taking a keen interest
in their Sydney real estate of late.

Coinciding with Hanning's recent promotion heading up the bank's Asia Pacific corporate client
solutions, the couple have listed their Bellevue Hill residence for about $4.5 million, through
Sotheby's James McCowan.

And now settlement on the Mosman Federation mansion Rona reveals the $8.75 million buyer to be
Jessica Hanning, who snapped up the home of Millers Self Storage founder Jim Miller and his wife
Jocelyn through Belle Property Mosman's Tim Foote.

- - -

In Bellevue Hill, ANZ Bank state chairman Warwick Smith and his wife Kathryn look like they have
finally sold their home Arjuna.
The Kambala Road property was first listed in 2011 with hopes of recouping the $6.3 million they
paid in 2007, but more recently price expectations dropped to $5.5 million.

Smith, who was elected to federal parliament in 1984 and was later part of John Howard's
government until he lost his seat in 1998, is now chairman of the advisory board of Australian Capital
Equity Group of Companies.

Brad Pillinger and Alain Waitsman, of LJ Hooker Double Bay, were sticking to the "it's been
withdrawn" script, but sources say it's a done deal and the only question now is how much the result
exceeded the $5 million mark.

- - -

John and Frances Ingham, of the chicken farming and thoroughbred racing family, have bought a
Palm Beach retreat, paying $7.2 million for the hilltop residence of lawyer Derek Heath and his wife
Elizabeth.

The Inghams aren't expected to make it their permanent home. That is one of the penthouses at The
Residence, overlooking Hyde Park, for which they paid $12.7 million in 2011.
Designed by architect Simon Parsons, the Sunrise Road property was listed last October for more
than $7.5 million with Christie's Ken Jacobs.

Shh!
Guess which rag trader family has just sold their home in an off-market deal worth about $15 million.
Guess which Mosman waterfront is the latest sold to a Chinese buyer? Rumour is it sold for almost
$8.5 million.
FOR SALE: About $20m

Trophy mansion listed

Luxury car dealer and racehorse owner Terry Mullens and his wife Wendy had only recently
completed a three-year restoration of their Potts Point mansion Jenner House, before they listed it
earlier this week for about $20 million. This would eclipse the suburb record they set in 2009 when
they bought the mariner villa unrenovated for $15 million from horse breeder Tony Peterson.

The Regency Revival-style mansion on one of the suburb's largest blocks of some 1900 square
metres is listed with Jason Boon, of Richardson & Wrench Elizabeth Bay, Michael Pallier, of
Sotheby's International, and Barry Goldman and Robert Page, of Raine & Horne Double Bay.
FOR SALE: About $10m

Grand Gothic by Bay

Citibank's Tim Robinson and his wife Kirstine have listed Allowah, their grand Victorian Gothic-style
mansion overlooking Mosman Bay, with a guide price of about $10 million.

Page13of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Built in 1881, the sandstone residence remains one of the oldest in the neighbourhood, and was used
as a block of apartments until the couple bought it in 2008 for $4 million.

It has been extensively renovated in recent years, with non-original additions removed and period
finishes restored. Now a five-bedroom, five-bathroom property, it features formal and informal living
rooms, library, media room, study, pool and space for eight cars. McGrath's Michael Coombs has the
listing.
FOR SALE: $1.8m+
Terrace fit for sale

Gym owner and former president of the International Federation of Bodybuilding (IFBB) in Australia
Paul Graham, and his wife Carole are selling the Paddington terrace they bought a year ago.

The Grahams, whose best man at their 1981 wedding was Arnold Schwarzenegger, bought the
double-fronted Victorian terrace last May for $1.7 million from James Couche and his wife Anna, who
are currently selling the Lord Dudley Hotel.

Now with plans for a tree-change, their Quarry Street home on the Woollahra border has been listed
with Ric Serrao and Louise Snowden of Raine & Horne and Di Jones's John Anderson for $1.8
million-plus.

INSIDE STORY visits Byron Bay
FOR SALE: $5.5m+

The Lane family went to Byron Bay in search of a big old Queenslander as their holiday home, but
came away with something more modern.

Tom Lane, of the Lane family who founded the Oroton fashion empire, and his stylist wife Emma,
bought the ultra contemporary white-box-style residence Amileka for $4 million in 2011. Designed by
architect Sharon Fraser, it was sold by Fraser's partner Stephen Esson.

It was the Lane family's home away from Sydney until last September when they bought 30 hectares
of land in Ewingsdale to establish the organic farming and tourist venture known as The Farm at
Byron Bay.

Now with plans to build something nearby their new farm, the couple have listed the 10-hectare
property Amileka for $5.5 million-plus through Nicolette van Wijngaarden, of Unique Estates.

But the Lanes have no intention of quitting Sydney. Having bought their beachfront home on Little
Manly Beach for $4.4 million in 2007, and with work recently completed building a new family home
on the prized site, the family still plan to spend six months of the year in Sydney.

IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

irreal : Residential Real Estate | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icre : Real Estate/Construction |
ireest : Real Estate
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New
South Wales
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020140613ea6e0008t

Page14of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.