kitchen spy

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Epicure
kitchen spy

peter barrett
775 words
16 September 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
19
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

shu-cheen yu

opera singer

She's sung for Imelda Marcos, performed with George Michael and been watched by billions at the
Sydney Olympic Games opening ceremony, in 2000. But more recently, Chinese-born opera singer
Shu-Cheen Yu has been eight-shows-a-week-busy taking to the stage as Lady Thiang in the Rodgers
and Hammerstein musical The King and I. At home in Melbourne's Prahran, she seldom drinks alcohol
(it dries out her vocal cords) and prefers to cook for herself and her husband, Kelvin Gough, rather than
risk getting sick eating out.

Last night's dinner

Brown rice, vegetables and a can of fish. I can't eat a big meal before I go on stage, it's no good for
singing. I eat about three or four times a day. During the Uncle Tom's Cabin number in the second act, I
have 28 minutes rest so that's when I have my main meal.

My inspiration

I firmly believe we are what we eat. For someone who has a career, who is so busy - eight shows a
week, teaching 11 students (some of them come twice) - to be able to sing well I must keep my body in
prime condition. Therefore, what I eat is very, very important.

The staples
My pantry There's always peanut butter, Vegemite (I like it in soups or on stewed vegetables), Promite
(for making egg sandwiches), MasterFoods hot English mustard, unprocessed organic bran (to keep me
regular in between long-haul flights), and always brown rice, although I like to cook white, brown, black
(wild) rice and barley together - I just love the different mixture of tastes. And I boil my rice, too. I always
have mixed nuts handy to snack on and I love free-range boiled eggs, which I have with a little black
pepper, sesame oil and my special soy sauce.
My fridge For my special soy sauce I start with Fountain soy, then add Maggi seasoning, Chinese
vinegar, dark soy, sesame oil, Chinese pepper oil (Bai Wei Zhai brand "green prickly ash oil") and
crushed garlic. There's usually leftover rice (which I reheat in the microwave in my special ceramic pot
with a plastic lid), and pumpkin, pickles, hot peppers, garlic (it keeps better in the fridge), coffee and
Rochester Ginger drink.

Secret vice

Chocolate. I love dark chocolate with roasted almonds. I have it about every second day.

Discovery

Page272of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.In the last two-to-three months I've started using barley. I've always known it was a powerful nutrient
with vitamin B and when I was young my uncle used to mix it with herbs so I thought it was a herb. But
now I discovered you can eat it as rice, so I add a little bit in and the rest is history.

My toolkit
I buy wooden chopping boards from local makers, I use wooden spoons, I boil my rice in a small pot
and have an all-purpose non-stick pan to do my stir-fries and stewed vegetables in. I also have a small
pan to boil my eggs. My secret weapon is my Pronto stainless steel cleaver. I keep my green tea in a
special ceramic canister my friend James Fang gave me - it's from Hangzhou.

Recipe stalwart

I make vegetable stew. I use salt, pepper, garlic, spring onion, purple onion, baby carrot, pumpkin,
potato and sweet potato, olive oil, honey and soy sauce. Sometimes I add some Sanitarium nutmeat for
protein.
I'm drinking
I'm very fussy about my tea - I like organic green tea, Chinese black tea and my favourite, Goddess of
Mercy oolong tea. I believe the best teas come from China so I always bring back tea when I can. I also
drink warm water with lemon and honey in the morning, but only occasionally alcohol - prosecco or
champagne - because it dries me out too much. I'll sometimes have a plunger coffee or a soy latte.

Most unforgettable meal

Singing at the Australian Pavilion of the World Expo in Shanghai in 2010. It made me feel so proud and
special to be there. I met Kerri-Anne Kennerley and sat next to Neil Perry, who cooked beef and lamb -
pure "Aussie" cooking. I was so happy, and yet something disastrous happened - my high heel snapped
halfway through the performance. But that's show business!

Favourite

I bought hand-carved pepper and salt shakers from Shepparton. I like to use a mix of yellow, pink, black
and white pepper and Murray River salt in them.

NS
RE
PUB
AN

gfod : Food/Drink | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020140915ea9g0005q

Search Summary

Text

Date
Source
Author

((chin* or hong kong)) and (
( (residential or site or commercial) and (casino resort or island or hotel or apartment
or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company or board or entitys) and
(transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) )
or
( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron or lead
or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or stake or
equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or firm or
company))
or
( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or equity
or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group or firm or
board) and (million* or billion* or B or M))
)
not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall Street
or Forex or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex)
and re=austr
01/09/2014 to 31/12/2014
All Sources
All Authors

Page273of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found
Timestamp

All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
2,847
28 August 2018 23:37

Page274of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.