Commodities on the cheap

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Smart Money
Commodities on the cheap

Vesna Poljak
1,172 words
1 November 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
23
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Equities With prices down, it looks like a good time to buy resource stocks, but is this the bottom of
the market? Vesna Poljak reports.
The plunge in the price of key commodities – from iron ore to oil – has shaken faith in the resources
sector, which is on track for losses of 13 per cent this year, the worst since 2011.

Some experts say there could be further woes to come, arguing analysts are too optimistic about the
outlook for commodity prices and that earnings forecasts beyond the 2014-15 year count on a
recovery in traded prices.

But as stocks slide, others are convinced signs of value are emerging.

The giants of the Australian resources sector, BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto, are in a process of
transformation to become more friendly to investors who desire higher and more stable dividends, a
shift away from high-stakes exploration. But they too have been vulnerable to the downturn and have
respectively shed 12 per cent and 13 per cent of their value this year .
Nor is anyone convinced mining companies are the new breed of defensives.
"I think the DNA of most resources companies is around growth," says Goldman Sachsequity
strategist Matthew Ross. "I think there will still be a bias to reinvest, as opposed to focus entirely on
capital management." Partly this is because the miners have pushed hard at expanding their
production, which comes with higher maintenance bills.

"Clearly they won't be investing as aggressively as they had in the past decade," says Ross, who
has an "underweight" recommendation on mining equities but is neutral towards energy stocks. He
believes the popular view, that there will be a drive to return cash rather than reinvest it, could
be overstated. "I'd probably have a healthy dose of scepticism."

The dominant miners have promised to increase dividends to win back investors deterred by the
billions in write-downs on underperforming projects and uneconomic investments. The standout
example is Rio Tinto, which this year washed its hands of the disastrous $3.9 billion Riversdale
Mining acquisition by selling the business for $50 million.China's winter
The downturn in the commodity cycle is getting in the way of resource company plans to repay
investors with more compelling dividends because lower commodity prices hurt the bottom line and
earnings downgrades cannot be ruled out.
Iron ore is down 41 per cent to $US79.09 a tonne after reaching a five-year low. Other bulk
commodities have been dragged down too, with copper down 7.4 per cent (although nickel is up
12.7 per cent).

Page194of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RBC Capital Markets analyst Chris Drew is not as bearish as most of his peers on the outlook for
iron ore, the key ingredient in steel making.

"We are less negative than the general view but it's certainly looking like the days of $US110,
$US120 iron ore prices are over," he adds, citing $US80 to $US90 as a more practical range.

"Right now we think we are oversold as the market is working through the significant increase in
supply delivered this year and demand is seasonally weak," Drew says.
"But we are starting to see some production come out of the market in China . . . that should start to
support pricing. We're also watching for China's winter when domestic production slows aggressively
and there is potential for weather-related supply disruption from Australia and Brazil."
His view that the market is too negative on iron ore is one of the reasons BHP and Rio offer an
attractive entry point at current prices for a medium-to-long-term investor. On Friday BHP shares
were trading at $33.57 and Rio at $59.57. They were as high as $39.79 and $71.30 in 2014.
"We have a preference for Rio, and that's predicated on our view for iron ore being a little bit more
optimistic than what the market's factoring in at the moment," Drew says.
"BHP's under a bit of pressure with the oil price coming off recently, but we saw them clearly
reiterate their commitment to the progressive dividend as well as their targets around cost-out and
reduced capex at the investor briefing this [past] week which was positive.
"BHP is a more diverse, larger-scale, less volatile mining exposure –so if you're looking for income
from a mining stock, that would be a low-risk easy way to play it. Generally the mining sector is
going to remain volatile, though."Bellwether

RBC is also positive towards nickel, singling out Western Areas and Sirius Resources as standout
stocks.
Crucial to the outlook for the resources sector is what happens to economic growth in China, the
world's second-largest economy and a fervent consumer of Australia's resources exports.
Third-quarter growth in China was slightly better than economists had anticipating, coming in at
7.3 per cent.
What is becoming increasingly clear is China is less interested in making infrastructure-heavy
stimulus efforts to boost its output, shifting towards more targeted easing measures.
ANZ economists believe China will meet its 7.5 per cent growth forecast for 2014, slowing to 7 per
cent in 2015 and 2016.
ANZ commodities analyst Mark Pervan says the Chinese property market is critical to framing the
outlook for demand for bulk commodities.
"The Chinese property market is the bellwether for demand," he adds. "Not just China, but Chinese
property. The Chinese steel market, which produces 55 per cent of the world's steel, actually
consumes 75 per cent of the world's iron ore exports.
"Also, in that steel market in China, half of it goes to Chinese property or real estate."The bottom

This downward cycle in the commodities market has dragged on longer than the usual three to four
years, he says, because of the China effect.
"We've definitely been on a downward path since early 2011 . . . that was at the time the Chinese
started to tighten monetary policy. We're close to the bottom. I'd say the cycle [is going to hit the]
bottom in the next six months."

The second half of 2015 looks more optimistic for key commodities, pe predicts.
ANZ is upbeat on energy, where the supply side looks to be addressed by expected OPEC cutbacks
and seasonality in prices will kick in.
The decimation of the oil price has been one of the most surprising turns of this year, with WTI crude
falling to $US80.95 a barrel from $US92.72 at the end of December. Oil equities have not all felt the
pain, with Woodside Petroleum up 2.1 per cent.

Still, there are winners to be found.

Page195of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Within this year's top 10 performers for the All Ordinaries Index, there are some miners and energy
stocks. These include No. 1 performer Liquefied Natural Gas up 1200 per cent, Western Areas up
84 per cent and Indophil Resources up 68 per cent.

bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
gpersf : Personal Finance | m14 : Commodity Markets | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | givcm :
Personal Investments in Commodities | gcat : Political/General News | gpersi : Personal Investments
| mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E
Exclusion Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141031eab10004r

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page196of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.