AFP onto fugitive money trail

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
AFP onto fugitive money trail

Special investigation Samantha Hutchinson, Lisa Murray, Angus Grigg and Lucy Gao
888 words
31 October 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
1
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

The son of China's most famous fugitive spent the five years before his father was placed under
investigation for corruption setting up two Australian companies and buying a development site in
Sydney's Neutral Bay.
Government-run media outlets in China have speculated for years that Gao Yan, a former
high-ranking Communist Party official, alleged to have stolen millions of dollars in state assets, fled to
Australia in 2002.

One source has confirmed the Australian Federal Police is investigating property linked to Mr Gao's
son, Gao Xinyuan. This raises the prospect the Gao family is on a target list put together by the AFP
and Chinese authorities as part of a joint effort to trace and freeze illicit assets.

Filings with Australia's corporate regulator show the younger Mr Gao, who himself spent five years in
a Chinese prison for corruption, was a shareholder and director of two Sydney-based companies.
One of the companies, Jutan Development, was registered in 1997 and the other, Yutan Property,
was set up in 1999 to develop the $1.8 million plot at Neutral Bay. It was later renamed Grandeur
Estate.
In 2002, at the time his father was facing a corruption investigation in China, Mr Gao and his business
partner sold the Neutral Bay development site for about $3 million, according to the purchaser Lucy
Cong. However, he remained on the board of Jutan until 2005. Attempts to contact either of the Gaos
via associates were unsuccessful.

Two directors and one former employee claimed they were no longer in contact with the younger Mr
Gao and no had dealings with his father.

Tracking down officials hiding overseas and confiscating their assets has become a top priority for
China's President Xi Jinping, who will seek greater co-operation from regional leaders, including
Prime Minister Tony Abbott, at a meeting in Beijing next week.
Earlier this year, the Chinese government launched "Operation Fox Hunt," a high-level campaign to
locate and bring back officials who have fled overseas. Australia has regularly been identified by
Beijing as a popular haven for corrupt officials and their families.
The AFP confirmed last week they had drawn up a priority list of targets in co-operation with Chinese
authorities. Asked on Thursday if the Gao family were on that list, a spokesman said: "we have a
long-standing practice that we don't confirm or deny who the AFP may or may not be investigating."

"As such, we are unable to provide any further details in relation to this matter," the spokesman said.

The Australian Financial Review has been told members of the AFP have in past weeks visited the
Pyrmont apartment building where Gao Xinyuan held a registered office in 1997 and 1998.

Page262of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.According to Chinese media reports, the younger Mr Gao first came to Australia in the second half of
1996, after graduating from the prestigious Peking University. He is said to have spent a year in the
country before returning home and establishing a series of businesses related to his father's job as
General Manager of the State Power Corporation, which at that time held a monopoly over the
electricity sector in China.

The younger Mr Gao then reportedly came back to Australia in May 2002, just two months
before his father was placed under investigation for corruption.
In September that year the older Mr Gao fled China and is widely reportedly to be living in Australia,
although this has never been confirmed.
In a surprise move, the younger Mr Gao returned to China in October that year, where he was
eventually charged with corruption.

He was found to have paid $25,000 in bribes, plus given a Rolex watch to two government officials in
exchange for the awarding of construction contracts to his business partners and was jailed in 2004
for five years.

Documents filed with the corporate regulator show the same date and place of birth for the younger
Mr Gao as that used by Chinese media which reference court documents. His 72 year-old father was
a famously extravagant party official, who began his career in north eastern province of Jilin in the
1960s.

He became governor in 1992, before being promoted to Party Secretary of the southern province of
Yunnan three years later.

His rise through the party continued in 1997, with his appointment as general manager of the State
Power Corporation, at a time when China was rapidly connecting millions of homes with electricity.
Earlier this year, China's Lanzhou Evening News said the elder Gao had promoted officials who gave
contracts to his son.

The paper said these contracts were worth nearly 300 million yuan ($56 million), which he later
sub-contracted after taking a margin for himself. It said the elder Gao had been linked to corruption as
far back as 1995, when he was head of the tobacco rich province of Yunnan.
The Financial Review revealed last week another corrupt Chinese official, Su Shunhu, had
channelled at least $1.2 million to his family in Sydney, before this month being handed a life
sentence for corruption.
According to property searches, his family bought and sold properties worth $5 million over the past
four years.

NS

RE

PUB
AN

gcorrp : Corruption | gcrim : Crime/Courts | npag : Page-One Stories | gcat : Political/General News |
gfinc : Financial Crime | ncat : Content Types
china : China | austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | beijin : Beijing | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging
Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | nswals : New South
Wales
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141030eaav0000w

Page263of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.