The Final Report of the Financial Services (Murray) Inquiry: it aint broke, it just needs a good tune-up

HD The Final Report of the Financial Services (Murray) Inquiry: it aint broke, it just needs a good

tune-up

BY Nuncio D'Angelo
WC 6,838 words
PD 12 December 2014
SN Mondaq Business Briefing
SC BBPUB
LA English
CY (c) 2014 Mondaq Ltd
LP

Introduction

TD

On Sunday 7 December 2014 the Federal Treasurer, Mr Joe Hockey, released the Final Report of the
Financial System Inquiry (or 'Murray Inquiry' after its Chair, David Murray) having received it at the end of
November in accordance with the Terms of Reference. The Inquiry was established by the Treasurer in
December 2013 to review Australia's financial system in the aftermath of the global financial crisis.

In the press release which accompanied the Final Report the Treasurer stated that it 'lays out a blueprint
for the financial system over the next decade.' He went on to say that the Government intends to consult
with industry and consumers before making any decisions on the recommendations. This consultation will
take place until 31 March 2015.

It is fair to say that the Report contains no real surprises and, perhaps a little disappointingly, no new 'Big
Ideas' of the scale of the so-called 'twin peaks model' suggested by the Wallis Report in 1997 and adopted
soon afterwards. The overall theme seems to be 'it ain't broke so all it needs is a good tune-up'. This was
not unexpected after statements in the Interim Report of July 2014 that 'the Australian financial system has
performed reasonably well in meeting the financial needs of Australians and facilitating productivity and
economic growth' and 'many areas of the financial system are operating effectively and do not require
substantial change'.

Readers will recall that the Interim Report contained the Inquiry's preliminary observations following the
first round of submissions and consultations, but it made no firm or formal recommendations (see our
bulletin on it here). Interested parties were invited to make further submissions to be considered for the
Final Report. By the closing date of 26 August 2014 some 6,500 further submissions were received (on top
of the almost 300 original submissions).

The Final Report contains 44 recommendations and these are set out below. We then include
observations from Norton Rose Fulbright specialists on some of the highlights.

Primary themes

The Inquiry asserts that Australia's financial system has performed well since the Wallis Inquiry and has
many strong characteristics. But it also has a number of weaknesses: taxation and regulatory settings
distort the flow of funding to the real economy; it remains susceptible to financial shocks; superannuation is
not delivering retirement incomes efficiently; unfair consumer outcomes remain prevalent; and policy
settings do not focus on the benefits of competition and innovation. As a result, the system is prone to calls
for more regulation.

The Final Report focuses on seven primary themes:

Funding the Australian economy: reduce distortions that impede the efficient market allocation of financial
resources like taxation, information imbalances and unnecessary regulation.

Competition: strengthen competition by removing impediments to its development.

Resilience: strengthen the economy by making the financial system more resilient.

Page58of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Superannuation and retirement incomes: lift the value of the superannuation system and retirement
incomes.

Innovation: drive economic growth and productivity through settings that promote innovation.

Consumer outcomes: enhance confidence and trust by creating an environment in which financial firms
treat customers fairly.

Regulatory system: enhance regulator independence and accountability, and minimise the need for future
regulation.

The recommendations

The Final Report states that its recommendations seek to improve efficiency, resilience and fair treatment
in the Australian financial system, to allow it to achieve its potential in supporting economic growth and
enhancing standards of living for current and future generations. The recommendations are as follows:

Chapter 1: Resilience

Set capital standardssuch that Australian authorised deposit-taking

institution capitalratios are unquestionably strong.2 Narrow mortgage risk
weight differences: 
Raise the average internal ratings-based (IRB) mortgage risk weightto narrow
the difference between average mortgage risk weights forauthorised
deposit-taking institutions using IRB risk-weight modelsand those using
standardised risk weights.3 Loss absorbing and recapitalisation
capacity: 
Implement a framework for minimum lossabsorbing and recapitalisation
capacity in line with emerginginternational practice, sufficient to facilitate
the orderlyresolution of Australian authorised deposit-taking institutions
andminimise taxpayer support.4 Transparent reporting: 
Develop areporting template for Australian authorised
deposit-takinginstitution capital ratios that is transparent against the
minimumBasel capital framework.5 Crisis management toolkit: 
Complete theexisting processes for strengthening crisis management powers
thathave been on hold pending the outcome of the Inquiry.6 Financial Claims
Scheme: 
Maintain theex post funding structure of the Financial Claims Schemefor
authorised deposit-taking institutions.7 Leverage ratio: 
Introduce a leverageratio that acts as a backstop to authorised
deposit-takinginstitutions' risk-weighted capital positions.8 Direct borrowing
by superannuation funds: 
Remove the exception to the general prohibition on direct borrowingfor
limited recourse borrowing arrangements by superannuationfunds.

Chapter 2: Superannuation and retirement incomes

Seek broad political agreement for, and enshrine in legislation,the

Require superannuation trustees to pre-select a comprehensiveincome product

objectives of the superannuation system and report publicly onhow policy
proposals are consistent with achieving these objectivesover the long term.10
Improving efficiency during accumulation:
Introduce a formal competitive process to allocate new default fundmembers
to MySuper products, unless a review by 2020 concludes thatthe Stronger Super
reforms have been effective in significantlyimproving competition and
efficiency in the superannuationsystem.11 The retirement phase of
superannuation: 
for members' retirement. The product wouldcommence on the member's
instruction, or the member may chooseto take their benefits in another way.
Impediments to productdevelopment should be removed.12 Choice of fund: 
Provide all employeeswith the ability to choose the fund into which their
SuperannuationGuarantee contributions are paid.13 Governance of superannuation
funds: 
Mandate a majority of independent directors on the
board ofcorporate trustees of public offer superannuation funds, includingan
independent chair; align the director penalty regime withmanaged investment
schemes; and strengthen the conflict of interestrequirements.

Page59of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Chapter 3: Innovation

16 Clearer graduated payments regulation: 

Establish a permanent public-private sector collaborativecommittee, the
'Innovation Collaboration', to facilitatefinancial system innovation and
enable timely and coordinatedpolicy and regulatory responses.15 Digital
identity: 
Develop a nationalstrategy for a federated-style model of trusted
digitalidentities.
Enhance graduation of retail payments regulation by clarifyingthresholds for
regulation by the Australian Securities andInvestments Commission and the
Australian
Prudential RegulationAuthority.  Strengthen consumer protection by mandating
theePayments Code. Introduce a separate prudential regime with twotiers for
purchased payment facilities.17 Interchange fees and customer
surcharging: 
Improve interchange fee regulation byclarifying thresholds for when they
apply, broadening the range offees and payments they apply to, and lowering
interchangefees.  Improve surcharging regulation by expanding itsapplication
and ensuring customers using lower-cost payment methodscannot be
over-surcharged by allowing more prescriptive limits onsurcharging.18
Crowdfunding: 
equity and,over time, other forms of financing.19 Data access and use: 
of data,taking into account community concerns about appropriate
privacyprotections.20 Comprehensive credit reporting: 
Supportindustry efforts to expand credit data sharing under the newvoluntary
comprehensive credit reporting regime. If, over time,participation is
inadequate, Government should consider legislatingmandatory participation.

Graduate fundraisingregulation to facilitate crowdfunding for both debt and
Review the costs andbenefits of increasing access to and improving the use

Chapter 4: Consumer outcomes

22 Introduce product intervention power: 

Removeregulatory impediments to innovative product disclosure

Introduce a targeted andprinciples-based product design and distribution
obligation.
Introduce a proactive product intervention power that would enhancethe
regulatory toolkit available where there is risk of significantconsumer
detriment.23 Facilitate innovative disclosure: 
andcommunication with consumers, and improve the way risk and fees
arecommunicated to consumers.24 Align the interests of financial firms and
consumers: 
Better align the interests of financialfirms with those of consumers by
raising industry standards,enhancing the power to ban individuals from
management and ensuringremuneration structures in life insurance and
stockbroking do notaffect the quality of financial advice.25 Raise the
competency of advisers: 
register of advisers.
insurance: 
Improve guidance (including tools andcalculators) and disclosure for general
insurance, especially inrelation to home insurance.

Raisethe competency of financial advice providers and introduce anenhanced

26 Improve guidance and disclosure in general

Chapter 5: Regulatory system

Create a newFinancial Regulator Assessment

Provide regulatorswith more stable funding by adopting a three-year funding

Board to advise Government annuallyon how financial regulators have
implemented their mandates. Provide clearer guidance to regulators in
Statements of Expectationand increase the use of performance indicators for
regulatorperformance.28 Execution of mandate: 
modelbased on periodic funding reviews, increase their capacity to
paycompetitive remuneration, boost flexibility in respect of staffingand
funding, and require them to undertake periodic capabilityreviews.29
Strengthening ASIC's funding and
powers: 

Page60of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Introduce an industry funding model for ASICand provide ASIC with stronger

30 Strengthening the focus on competition in the

Review the state of competition in thesector every three years, improve

regulatory tools.
financial
system: 
reporting of how regulatorsbalance competition against their core objectives,
identifybarriers to cross-border provision of financial services andinclude
consideration of competition in ASIC's mandate.31 Compliance costs and policy
processes: 
change.  Conduct post-implementation reviews ofmajor regulatory changes more
frequently.

Increase the time available for industry to implement complexregulatory

Appendix 1: Significant matters

Explore ways tofacilitate development of the impact investment market

Publishretirement income projections on member statements from

Update the 2009 CyberSecurity Strategy to reflect changes in the threat

Clearly differentiatethe investment products that finance companies and

andencourage innovation in funding social service delivery.
Provide guidance to superannuation trustees on the appropriatenessof impact
investment.  Support law reform to classify aprivate ancillary fund as a
'sophisticated' or'professional' investor, where the founder of the fundmeets
those definitions.33 Retail corporate bond market: 
Reducedisclosure requirements for large listed corporates issuing'simple'
bonds and encourage industry to develop standardterms for 'simple' bonds.34
Unfair contract term provisions: 
SupportGovernment's process to extend unfair contract term protectionsto
small businesses.  Encourage industry to develop standardson the use of
non-monetary default covenants.35 Finance companies: 
similar entitiesoffer retail consumers from authorised deposit-taking
institutiondeposits.36 Corporate administration and bankruptcy: 
Consult on possible amendments to the external administrationregime to
provide additional flexibility for businesses infinancial difficulty.37
Superannuation member engagement: 
definedcontribution superannuation schemes using ASIC regulatoryguidance. 
Facilitate access to consolidated superannuationinformation from the
Australian Taxation Office to use withASIC's and superannuation funds'
retirement incomeprojection calculators.38 Cyber security: 
environment,improve cohesion in policy implementation, and
progresspublic-private sector and cross-industry collaboration. Establish a
formal framework for cyber security information sharingand response to cyber
threats.39 Technology neutrality: 
Identify, inconsultation with the financial sector, and amend priority areas
ofregulation to be technology neutral.  Embed consideration ofthe principle
of technology neutrality into development processesfor future regulation. 
Ensure regulation allows individualsto select alternative methods to access
services to maintain fairtreatment for all consumer segments.40 Provision of
financial advice and mortgage
broking: 
Rename 'general advice' and requireadvisers and mortgage brokers to disclose
ownership structures. 41 Unclaimed monies: 
Define bank accountsand life insurance policies as unclaimed monies only if
they areinactive for seven years.42 Managed investment scheme regulation: 
Consumer detriment, including illiquid schemes and freezing of
funds. Regulatory architecture impeding cross-border transactions and
mutual recognition arrangements.
Support Government's review of the Corporations and MarketsAdvisory
Committee's recommendations on managed investmentschemes, giving priority to
matters relating to:43 Legacy products: 
Introduce a mechanism tofacilitate the rationalisation of legacy products in
the lifeinsurance and managed investments sectors.44 Corporations Act 2001
ownership
restrictions: 

Page61of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Remove market ownership restrictionsfrom the Corporations Act 2001 once the
current reforms tocross-border regulation of financial market infrastructure
arecomplete.

Norton Rose Fulbright expert observations

Here are our thoughts on specific highlights (in no particular order):

Bank capital

The recommendations include an increase in the amount of capital held by ADIs so that those institutions
rank in the top 25% globally on regulatory capital levels, potentially requiring ADIs to hold a further 1% in
regulatory capital. This is likely to lead to further equity capital raisings by ADIs to achieve what the Final
Report calls "a safety buffer to absorb losses". ADIs have already successfully raised further capital this
year, so finding investors is unlikely to be too great a challenge. However, there may well be a cost passed
on to business and consumers. If ADIs do pass on the cost of holding this further capital, an estimated
additional 10 bps will be added to funding costs.

At a time when we have most likely reached an inflection point between bank lending rates and costs of
equivalent funding in the debt capital markets, these additional bank costs will encourage borrowers to
seek funds from the debt capital markets. The Final Report is encouraging greater issuance of corporate
bonds (see below), so we assume that the Inquiry is not concerned at the potential shift in risk from the
banking to the debt capital markets sector.

The recommendation to implement a framework for minimum loss absorbing and recapitalisation capacity
in line with emerging international practice is driven by the "too big to fail" concern. This is about "bail-in"
capital. The Inquiry has enunciated a lingering worry that investors in ADIs will rely on an implicit
guarantee by the government of Australian ADIs and that the taxpayer may suffer as a result. Loss
absorbing or recapitalisation measures will have already found their expression in "non-viability"
conversion triggers on certain types of subordinated debt or other similar debt instruments. If investors
have bought on this basis without requiring a commensurately higher return, then ADIs may not find this
requirement too troublesome.

The recommendation to raise the average internal ratings-based (IRB) mortgage risk weight to narrow the
difference between average mortgage risk weights for authorised deposit-taking institutions using IRB
risk-weight models and those using standardised risk weight should be welcomed by regional banks and
other ADIs that have been using a standardised risk weighting system. This is because it should reduce
the competitive disadvantage they have been under by having to hold more capital to mortgage exposures
than IRB-based banks. Conversely, the IRB-based banks will consider this an unnecessary increase in
capital for institutions whose mortgage books performed very well, particularly compared to offshore
banks, during the GFC. If implemented, the increased costs are likely to be passed on to the long-suffering
consumer.

Finance companies and shadow banking

Notably, the Final Report did not recommend the regulation of shadow banking but has left that sector to
be reviewed annually by the Council of Financial Regulators. There is to be ongoing reliance on the
Financial Claims Scheme and the depositor protection regime, with a hint that perhaps the $250,000 level
of protection currently provided for each account with each institution, should be revisited. The absence of
a recommendation on shadow banking will be welcomed by the non-bank financial sector, as it seeks to
increase competition and choice for consumers. However, that may not be the end of it. The Final Report
acknowledges that alignment with international developments will be important in relation to shadow
banking. The US has already begun to regulate some bank-type entities that do not take deposits (eg. GE
Capital and AIG) and recent comments from the ECB and BIS indicate that the EU may well follow the
same path for European shadow banking entities.

International competitiveness and the funds management sector

The Report brings good news for the funds management sector and its desire to compete internationally.
This is described as a priority area of reform and Government action as it is a key component of getting the
blueprint right for the Australian financial system into the future. The Inquiry's rationale for supporting this
area of reform is based upon its philosophy that the primary means of improving the efficiency of our
financial system is through competition, noting that developments and opportunities in Asia make change
imperative.

The Inquiry's recommendations in this area are intended to rebalance ASIC's regulatory focus towards
competition and remove barriers to cross border provision of financial services and the free flow of capital
into and out of Australia. In addition the Inquiry also recommended:

Page62of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.that the Government should treat as a priority area of action the recommendations of CAMAC in their 2012
and 2014 reports including in relation to removing impediments in Australia's regulatory architecture which
make it harder for our funds sector to do cross border business; and

that the Government consider the introduction of alternative collective investment vehicles such as
corporate tax flow-through vehicles to facilitate the growth of our management of foreign funds.

Superannuation

Borrowing prohibition

The proposal to remove the exception to the borrowing prohibition may have the unintended consequence
of closing down the market for instalment warrants and other structured products that involve in-built forms
of leverage, as well as closing down the residential property asset class for SMSFs.

Improving efficiency

The Inquiry clearly has reservations about the effectiveness of the Stronger Super reforms to bring down
fees. While recognising that those reforms should be allowed to run their course, the Report recommends
that a Parliamentary Committee inquiry should commence as early as next year to test the design features
for a new competitive tender process for the super industry. The successful bidders will be a smaller
number of super funds (with no hint as to the number) that will receive the super guarantee contributions of
new entrants. The catch is that those funds must also offer the same fees and other features to their
existing members. This recommendation could result in massive industry consolidation as funds seek to
gain the necessary scale in order to compete on fees and brings Australia more in line with compulsory
pension regimes overseas.

Retirement phase of super

Tilting the retirement product bias away from account-based pensions towards a default income stream
chosen by trustees will be welcome by the super industry. However, as many of the submissions pushed
for some element of compulsion, it is arguable that the Report does not go far enough. Rather, it
encourages the development of retirement income products with pooled longevity risk protection and the
removal of tax and other barriers to the development of such products. While these recommendations are
welcome, it is unclear whether they will change consumer behaviour as consumers will continue to be able
to choose to take their super benefits as lump sums, and then fall back on the age pension.

Majority of independent directors

The Inquiry is strongly supportive of a governance model of a majority of independent directors for public
offer super funds as well as introducing civil and criminal penalties for director misconduct and
recommends that equal representation (the current model) be restricted to defined benefit funds where
employers bear the investment risk.

Taxation of super

The Report dodges the bullet on tax reform and leaves it to the Tax White Paper to recommend changes
to the taxation of super. In its sights will be the concessional contribution caps and the taxation of earnings
in the retirement phase (which are currently tax free) as well as the taxation of high super balances.

Consumer outcomes

Facilitating innovation

The Inquiry has effectively deferred making a policy recommendation on the use of consumer data
pending a further Productivity Commission review by the end of 2015, and perhaps with good reason. The
use of consumer data is a double-edged sword. Consumer data can be used to create and promote
personalised products tailored to a consumer's specific needs. This data can also be used to predict
customer needs, making marketing and customer service for existing customers more efficient - which
ought to result in cost savings that can be passed on to the consumer. On the other hand, some
consumers have legitimate privacy concerns about the use of their private data for the commercial gain of
financial institutions. For consumers that financial institutions deem less desirable, tailored products can
also have a damaging effect, making it harder for them to access credit, or requiring them to access credit
through products designed to prey on their tendency to make payments late or overdraw.

The Report recommends the establishment of a permanent public-private sector collaborative committee,
the 'Innovation Collaboration', to facilitate financial system innovation. This is similar to the 'Innovation Hub'

Page63of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.initiative by the UK's Financial Conduct Authority established earlier this year, indicating that a close
monitoring of UK developments will provide valuable insights into the future of regulation in Australia.

Following the lead of the UK regulator, the Report recommends the facilitation of innovative forms of
disclosure, noting consumer behavioural biases and commercial disincentives currently limit the
effectiveness of our current disclosure regime. While the Report is scant on detail, it is echoing the
consistent need for reform to facilitate innovation in financial services.

Technology neutrality

Consistent with recent ASIC announcements, the Report clearly endorses the principle of "technology
neutrality" in the regulation of financial services. It is encouraging that the reform dial is moving in the right
direction but it is not just about allowing electronic delivery. Regulation needs to adjust the bias away from
paper, page and document type formats to facilitate the use of interactive multi-media personalised
engagement with customers and allow the disclosure to be adaptive for use with all types of mobile
devices.

Such reform should result in significant cost savings for financial services providers as well as improve the
customer experience and reduce the risk of misselling products and services.

However, much depends on the regulators and how facilitative they are prepared to be. The Report
recognises that the regulators need to adopt a flexible approach to respond to future developments in the
market and technology. However, the regulators may need more resources and potentially new and
different skill sets, in order to quickly identify both the opportunities and risks that new technology poses for
financial services providers and consumers.

Conduct regulation

The Report's explicit and implicit endorsement of the UK approach also extends to its recommendation to
introduce the UK FCA style product intervention powers into the Australian regulator's toolkit. By making
issuers and distributors of financial products more accountable for design and distribution, the Report
believes that such conduct regulation will lead to positive consumer outcomes and strengthen consumer
confidence and trust in the system. These powers include bans on specific products, product terms,
distribution channels, mandated warnings and product labelling. If implemented, these wide ranging
powers will significantly strengthen the intrusive reach of ASIC into product development and distribution.

Intervention powers of this sort could mean a new era of conduct regulation in Australia, where the focus of
regulation will shift from enforcement action to preventative action by ASIC. Currently, this is the realm of
APRA, which has the power to impose prudential standards (in addition to its enforcement powers).
Prudential regulation has the objective of preventing the failure of institutions that can have a significant
systemic impact on the whole economy.

Rather than conferring "standards making" powers on ASIC, the Report recommends ASIC be given the
power to impose licence conditions that require the applicant to strengthen their internal systems to
address misconduct risk. Currently, ASIC can only do so through enforceable undertakings, which come
too late for investors who have already suffered loss. By recommending the introduction of these
preventative powers through licence conditions, it is clear that the Inquiry is aligning ASIC's powers with
the new UK FCA. It will be interesting to see how ASIC will seek to transform itself, if these
recommendations are ultimately adopted by the Government.

Introduce a targeted and principles-based product design and distribution obligation

The Inquiry proposes that this obligation would require product issuers to consider the consumer whose
financial needs will be met by the product, and how the product should be distributed to those consumers.
The obligation would also require ongoing review of products (including post the point of sale) to ensure
that they continue to meet the needs of target consumers. The Inquiry has recommended that breach of
this obligation should result in a civil penalty.

This approach to product design regulation won out over two alternatives: an individual appropriateness
test (similar to those used in Japan, Hong Kong and Singapore) which was deemed to be too expensive
for product issuers; and industry self-regulation, which was rejected as ineffective, given the failure of
industry self-regulation to improve the conduct of financial advisers.

Even without an individual appropriateness test, an ongoing obligation to review financial products will
increase compliance costs for product issuers (assuming the obligation cannot be discharged by a mere
gestural review), and we expect to see a push back from the banking and financial advice industry on this
aspect of the recommendation.

Page64of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Introduce a proactive product intervention power

This recommendation reflects ASIC's submissions to the Inquiry, seeking a greater regulatory toolkit. If
adopted, ASIC would have the power to temporarily ban products, restrict their distribution and change the
way the products are marketed and communicated to consumers.
The Inquiry has recognised that such a power would have "significant commercial impact", and has
indicated that the power would be subject to judicial review, as well as requiring ASIC to consult with
APRA and the proposed Financial Regulator Assessment Board on its use. The Inquiry has also
suggested a review of the power after 5 years.

By making this recommendation, it seems that the Inquiry has also recommended improved funding for
ASIC, another request made by ASIC in its submissions to the Inquiry. Certainly, the change would have
little real impact without increased funding for the regulator.

Remove regulatory impediments to innovative product disclosure

This will be a change welcomed by financial institutions - in its submissions, the Australian Bankers'
Association called for simplifications to disclosure rules, which it asserted do not take into account the
persistent availability of information online and other advantages of electronic delivery of information.
Absent from this recommendation is the concept of 'layered disclosure', the provision of information to
consumers as and when it becomes appropriate, which was previously considered by the Inquiry's interim
report, and advocated for by consumer protection groups in their submissions.

There is no guarantee that ASIC-granted individual exemptions, and broader legislative exemptions
without more, will promote the development and use of novel and user-friendly disclosure materials. The
Inquiry is hoping that competition in financial services, and the disruptive influence of 'new entrants', will
bring innovation. But in an industry dominated by a small number of large, well-established institutions, it
remains to be seen where these new entrants will come from. One potential source of new competition
could be large players in other markets expanding into financial services, such as the major supermarket
chains' foray into insurance products.

Better align the interests of financial firms with those of consumers

While the Inquiry has recommended improving the culture of financial firms, it is hard to see exactly how
the Inquiry proposes to accomplish this aim. However, the Inquiry addresses the real cause of
misbehaviour by financial advisers - which it identifies as incentive-based remuneration - in respect of only
2 discrete areas, life insurance and stockbroking. As a response to phoenix activity, the Inquiry has also
recommended that ASIC be given enhanced powers to ban individuals from managing financial firms.

Raise the competency of financial advice providers

The Interim Report considered a number of proposals about improving the education of financial advisers,
and it is no surprise to see a number of them here. The Inquiry has proposed a minimum level of tertiary
education for financial advisers, consistent with similar efforts in other jurisdictions to improve the
competency of advisers. However, the final report is silent on specialist training requirements for trustees
of SMSFs, which was considered by the interim report and which ASIC asked for in its submissions, noting
that SMSF promotion models are a top enforcement priority for the regulator.

Better minimum education standards are welcome, though the Inquiry's decision not to recommend a
national exam is perhaps a missed opportunity to clearly establish a uniform competency baseline. The
final report has also not completely addressed the inevitable increase to the cost of financial advice that
will accompany the shrinking of the financial adviser profession when less qualified advisers leave the
industry. The Inquiry has recognised the risk of an 'advice gap', and has given a nod to "cost effective
market developments" such as scaled advice, limited scope advice, and advice delivered online, but has
not made a policy recommendation on how to implement these - nor, more importantly, a policy
recommendation on how to make sure that these forms of delivery still provide customers with sound and
effective advice.

Improve guidance (including tools and calculators) and disclosure for general insurance, especially in
relation to home insurance

Underinsurance and inappropriate insurance was a big area of concern for consumer groups making
submissions to the Inquiry, and this recommendation seeks to address those concerns. The Inquiry reports
that these problems can be resolved primarily through better disclosure, such as requiring insurers to help
consumers to determine an appropriate level of insurance by providing information about replacement
costs. The Inquiry has noted that some insurers provide this information to a limited degree through online
calculators, and has proposed improving disclosure through better electronic and on-line tools.

Page65of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Curiously, the Inquiry has rejected solutions such as standardised or default insurance products and total
replacement policies in favour of better disclosure tools, despite its comments about the need for
regulation of product design for other financial products.

Retail corporate bond market

The expansion of debt capital markets funding by corporates has been on the agenda of both this present
and previous governments, as they seek to encourage diversification of funding sources and create
investment products for retail and institutional investors. The Report's recommendation should be
welcomed and supported by the industry which has long advocated for some template-style issuance.

Disappointingly, there is no specific recommendation for standardised terms and reduced disclosure
requirement for some types of asset-backed issuance, or "simple securitisation". The resurgence of the
RMBS market and greater simplification and consistency of those transactions present an ideal
opportunity for the extension of this approach to that type of securitisation. An opportunity missed.

Payment systems

Two of the recommendations by the Inquiry were directed at payment systems:

Clearer graduated payments regulation

The Inquiry noted that Australia has a complex, fragmented and less than clear framework for regulating
payments which is administered in various respects by ASIC, APRA and the Payment Systems Board
(PSB). It proposed that the regulators should publish a clear guide to the framework for industry, in
particular for new entrants, that outlines thresholds and regulatory requirements. Changes were suggested
to consumer protection regulation for retail payment service providers with a view to simplification and
improvement. The Inquiry also foreshadowed the problems with the current regulatory regime in not
accommodating future innovation in payments, such as digital currencies. A review of current legislation
was recommended as it was not clear that the PSB can regulate payment systems involving alternative
mediums of exchange that are not national currencies. It is encouraging that the Inquiry did recognise
issues with current system of regulation of the payments system. While some regulation is clearly
warranted, it would have been pleasing to see some recognition of the possible benefits of stepping back
from what some perceive as over-regulation in this area and whether, in some instances, there may be
benefits in self-regulation.

Interchange fees and customer surcharging

A continuing issue arising from the introduction of regulations in 2003 allowing merchants to impose
surcharges in relation to payment card transactions, so as to recover the cost of accepting payment
cards, has been the problem of some merchants "over-surcharging" ie. recovering more than their
reasonable costs. The proposal by the Inquiry that the PSB consider ways to simplify compliance and
improve the accuracy of surcharging is a good one. However, irrespective of the regulatory means that
may be adopted as a result, the Inquiry did not have a solution for enforcing any such regulation. It is
suspected that we may not see an end to over-surcharging by some merchants any time soon. A major,
and continuing, issue for the four-party credit card schemes in Australia was the introduction, in 2003, of
restrictions on the amount of interchange fees that could be charged in credit card transactions. The
recommendation by the Inquiry that the PSB consider, as a means of improving the transparency and
efficiency of interchange fee regulation, reducing interchange fees in the short term, with a view to possible
further lowering in the longer term, is likely to revive this issue.

Technology and cybersecurity

As with the Interim Report, the Final Report highlights cyber security and technology related fraud risks as
an emerging trend for the financial services industry that presents many challenges. At the forefront of the
risks that arise is the rapid pace of technological change that is occurring within the financial system and
how the system operates. As a result, the emergence of new technology is placing demands on regulators
to be more flexible, and raising issues relating to identity, privacy and cyber security. The Final Report
highlights that Australia's regulators need the funding and skills to meet these challenges into the future.

Specifically in relation to cyber security, the Committee recommends an update to the 2009
whole-of-Government Cyber Security Strategy (CSS) to reflect changes in the threat environment, improve
cohesion in policy implementation, and progress public-private sector and cross-industry collaboration. It is
recommended that such an update be in conjunction with the establishment of a formal framework for
cyber security information sharing and response to cyber threats.

As noted in the Interim Report, due to the advances in technology and the sophistication of cyber-crime,
even in the space of 5 years the CSS is now largely out of date and lags behind similar strategies adopted

Page66of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.in the US, UK, Canada, New Zealand, France, Germany, Japan and Singapore. While financial institutions
obviously retain ultimate responsibility for maintaining the security of their own systems, an updated CSS
will provide a framework that will allow institutions to collaborate with Government and co-ordinate their
efforts. Interestingly, the Inquiry did not go so far as to formally recommend a model that was under
consideration at the time of the Interim Report - being the Financial Services Information Sharing and
Analysis Center (FS-ISAC) in the US, which is a collaboration between financial institutions and
government. Even so, it is likely that updates to the CSS will include a greater push for public and private
sector collaboration. A current push for US-style legislative reforms here focussing on fraud risks in the
private sector will also need to cover risks arising from cyber-crime, and this, coupled with updates to the
CSS and the development of a formal mechanism for public-private sector collaboration, will further
improve the resilience of the financial system.

Taxation

Consistently with the taxation comments foreshadowed in the Interim Report, and having regard to the
major review of Australia's taxation system currently being undertaken, and the Tax White Paper due for
release in 2015, the Inquiry did not purport to make any express recommendations so far as tax was
concerned. However, it did identify a number of taxes that distort the allocation of funding and risk in the
economy and indicated that the Tax White Paper should consider reform in these areas. Among the tax
distortions identified by the Inquiry were the following:

Negative gearing and capital gains tax

Housing was identified as a potential source of systemic risk for the financial system and the economy.
The combined effect of concessional rates of capital gains tax for assets held for longer than a year and
the deductibility of interest on borrowings to acquire investment properties was seen as a tax subsidy.
Since these tax breaks have long been a feature of the Australian tax system - apart from the short lived
attempt to deal with negative gearing in 1985- there would be clear political implications in any attempt to
remove this particular tax subsidy.

Dividend imputation

The Inquiry saw the case for retaining dividend imputation as being less clear than in the past. With
Australia's economy becoming more open and connected to global capital markets, imputation is viewed
as a subsidy for domestic investors, including superannuation funds, to invest in domestic equities. The
benefits of imputation have been an important factor in investments decisions by many Australians -
particularly retirees relying on superannuation. There would be a political dynamic associated with any
attempted removal.

Interest withholding tax

Withholding taxes were said by the Inquiry to generally increase the required rate of return for foreign
investors which, in turn, reduces the relative attractiveness of Australia as an investment destination.
Where the tax cost is passed on to domestic borrowers this raises the cost of capital in Australia. Lower,
more uniform, withholding taxes would reduce distortions. This observation has considerable merit. There
do exist exemptions from interest withholding tax in a few tax treaties to which Australia in a party and,
otherwise, some large scale borrowings can be structured to take advantage of domestic exemptions -
such as the s128F ITAA 1936 exemption for public offers of debt securities. It would be more equitable if a
lower interest withholding tax regime were more widely available rather than being confined to those
foreign lenders who benefit under a tax treaty or where the borrowing can be structured to utilise an
exemption.

Corporate Administration and Bankruptcy

The Report accepts that "Australia's external administration provisions are generally working well and do
not require wholesale revision".

ASIC is to retain its supervision of corporate insolvency with recommendations that it be better resourced
and "should devote more attention to industry supervision including more proactively identifying and
weeding-out misconduct". This approach is consistent with the intentions of the recently released
Insolvency Law Reform Bill and stated public intention of ASIC.

One recommendation that should have impact in the insolvency industry is Recommendation 39 that
"priority areas of regulations" be made "technology neutral" and that future government policy and
regulation adopt the principle of "technology neutrality". The aim of the recommendation is to avoid
regulation that "assumes or requires the use of certain forms of technology", for example, a paper based
environment. The Report considers that efficiencies should be available from "digital processes that are
not being used" in external administration and bankruptcy regulation.

Page67of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The Report refers to proposals for a US Chapter 11 style framework and protection for directors by a "'safe
harbour' to permit restructuring firms in financial difficulty without invoking external administration
processes". The Report recognised that more work needs to be done on these proposals without reaching
any tentative conclusions on the direction of further enhancement and made a recommendation that
further consultation should be undertaken for possible amendments to provide additional flexibility
(recommendation 36). This recommendation follows the general thrust of the report of not making major
recommendations as the Australian financial system has generally performed well.

Start-ups and crowdfunding

The Report describes certain tax distortions in relation to start-ups and notes the need for better targeted
tax settings to facilitate innovation, acknowledgement of the barrier to fundraising caused by existing tax
uncertainty around venture capital limited partnerships and recognition of the benefits of more flexible
access to R&D tax offsets.

The Report cites stakeholders as suggesting that Australia is already lagging other jurisdictions in the
facilitation of crowdfunding, meaning time is of the essence. Equity investment is a critical aspect of the
viability of seed-stage and early-stage ventures as banks traditionally do not lend to pre-revenue
companies. The costs of preparing a prospectus for most seed-stage and early-stage enterprises would
normally be prohibitive. We see meaningful benefit in creating a new special category of small scale
offering for crowdfunding which:

recognises the 20 cap on investors is not appropriate and that there is a strong argument that no cap on
the number of investors should apply

reassesses the cap of $2m and considers a graduated cap depending on the risk factors associated with
the issuer, and

balances these additional risks with a pragmatic basic disclosure regime (where no regime might otherwise
apply) as well as reporting with minimal red-tape to ensure an appropriately informed market.

Conclusion

The Final Report is of great significance for the financial sector as its recommendations have the potential
to significantly affect how business is done in and by Australia, as well as the cost of doing business. It
should also further enhance confidence in the Australian economy and financial system. Of course, we are
left with the question of how many of the recommendations are adopted and implemented, and that is as
much a question of politics as one of economics.

Dr. Nuncio D'Angelo

Norton Rose Fulbright Australia

Level 18

Grosvenor Place

225 George St

Sydney

2000

AUSTRALIA

Tel: 29330 8000

Fax: 293308000

E-mail: Alex.boxsell@nortonrosefulbright.com

URL: www.nortonrosefulbright.com/

Click Here for related articles

(c) Mondaq Ltd, 2014 - Tel. +44 (0)20 8544 8300 - http://www.mondaq.com

CO nortrb : Norton Rose Fulbright LLP

Page68of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | i835 : Legal Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer
Services

NS ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c16 : Bankruptcy | c22 : New Products/Services | reqrbc : Suggested

Reading Banking/Credit | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccfd : Corporate Financial Difficulty | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | redit : Selection of Top
Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News

RE austr : Australia | uk : United Kingdom | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | eecz : European

Union Countries | eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe

IPD Finance and Banking
PUB Mondaq Limited
AN Document BBPUB00020141212eacc000b6

Page69of304©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.