Takeovers Shares spike

Takeovers Shares spike

Eli Greenblat

21 May 2014
Canberra Times
CANBTZ

HD
BY
WC 718 words
PD
SN
SC
PG B007
LA
CY
LP

English
(c) 2014 The Canberra Times

Takeovers Shares spike

Treasury says ignore KKR's $3.1b offer

TD

Eli Greenblat
Treasury Wine Estates has made its case to investors to ignore a surprise $3.1 billion takeover bid from
private equity firmKKR by pledging to slash its workforce by 5 per cent and the savings to fund a global
marketing blitz to draw drinkers and retailers to its most-loved wine brands. But new chief executive
Michael Clarke, who is staring down the barrel of a potentially protracted siege from KKR and other
bidders that might emerge, also warned the next two months' trading were crucial for the winemaker and
that the company might be forced to book painful write-downs to the value of its vineyards and wine
inventory. New urgency was given to Mr Clarke's turnaround plans after Treasury Wine was forced to
reveal on Tuesday it had been approached by KKR on April 16 with a takeover offer priced at $4.70 per
share. Treasury Wine had held confidential talks with KKR since mid- April but said after the market
closed on Monday night it had found the private equity firm and its advisers had spoken to one or more of
its shareholders, and that talks had leaked, risking confidentiality and possibly leading to an uninformed
market. It then decided to inform the market itself to safeguard its continuous disclosure obligations. For
its part, KKR is denying any such leak had occurred and rather it was left "twiddling its thumbs" for five
weeks with no proper engagement from Treasury Wine's board. Last night the rapacious KKR was
preparing to move to its next stage of its leveraged buyout play-book to gain control of Treasury Wine and
is expected to ramp up pressure on the board to open its books and begin negotiating around its initial bid
of $4.70 per share. Shares in Treasury Wine rocketed to a high of $4.93 when news of the takeover
approach was released and later closed up 73ï¿½, or 17.9 per cent, at $4.80 - suggesting KKR will have
to come back with a better offer to win over shareholders. The takeover battle could turn on the next two
months and the release of full-year results slated for August. Mr Clarke, who would not be drawn directly
on the merits of the KKR bid, conceded yesterday trading conditions had remained "difficult" since the
company's interim results announcement in February, although he would not go into detail as to where
the pressures to its profits were coming from. It is expected the winemaker, which owns brands such as
Penfolds, Wolf Blass and Rosemount, has met souring consumer demand especially acoss North America
and the China market. Any impairments could endanger Treasury Wine's previously promised pre-tax
earnings guidance of $190 million to $210 million for 2013-2014 with the comings weeks crucial as the
winemaker pushes through its biggest volumes in May and June. Admitting he was carrying on

with plans and budgets put in place by the former CEO, David Dearie, who was dumped in September, Mr
Clarke implored shareholders to stick with Treasury Wine into the new financial year when his own
strategy for turning around the group would be revealed. "I'm not going to do things that are short-term
natured, I want to make sure this company has a longer term view on how we create value and turn the
company around," Mr Clarke said at an investor briefing. "The longer term value of our business ... is not
dependent on the next six weeks trading results, that I

feel very clear on. There is the short term delivery of the next six weeks and then the longer term of what
is the business going to do over the next five-plus years." But in the short term there would be some
quick changes. Mr Clarke yesterday unveiled his opening blueprint to rescue the company's fortunes,
with $35 million in cost savings this year to come from the loss of around 175 jobs or 5 per cent of its

Page86of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.global workforce of more than 3500. He said Treasury Wine would focus the savings on marketing
support for around 20 of its leading global and regional power brands.

56871071

RF
CO trzwn : Treasury Wine Estates Ltd
IN

i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i426 : Wine | ialco : Alcoholic Beverages/Drinks | ibevrge :
Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News
Filter
canbrr : Canberra | apacz : Asia Pacific | auscap : Australian Capital Territory | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
austr : Australia

NS

RE

PUB Federal Capital Press of Australia Pty Ltd
AN

Document CANBTZ0020140520ea5l0001g

Page87of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.