Devine confirms Leighton stake for grabs

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Devine confirms Leighton stake for grabs

SARAH DANCKERT, DAMON KITNEY, construction
627 words
26 June 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
20
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

LEIGHTON Holdings has pushed the button on its property sale program with its majority-owned
listed residential developer Devine announcing the construction giant was looking to offload its $76
million stake.
Speculation is already rife that the sale process could result in a rival developer such as AVJennings
or Cedar Woods making a bid for the Devine business.

AVJennings chief executive Peter Summers and Cedar Woods managing director Paul Sadleir
declined to comment.

Sources said a larger developer like Stockland and Mirvac would be only outside chances at making
an offer for the company.
The sale of Leighton’s Devine stake was flagged to the market last week in a flyer sent out by the
construction giant that included the strategic review of the Leighton Properties and the Devine
interests in the one document.
The four-page sale flyer contained two pages on the former and two on the latter. Leighton Properties
has a development pipeline with an end value of $6.5bn. Mirvac and Lend Lease are seen as
potential buyers for assets within that business that include the massive Perth City Link project where
Mirvac is the group’s joint venture partner.
Confirmation of the Devine sale comes as French companyBouygues Construction is understood to
have expressed interest in acquiring John Holland. Lend Lease has teamed up with Bouygues to
design and construct the $3 billion NorthConnex tunnel linking Sydney’s M1 and M2 freeways.

Another interested player is said to be Spanish construction giant Ferrovial. Leighton chief executive
Marcelino Fernandez Verdes has been meeting with managers across the group in Sydney,
Brisbane and Melbourne over the past 10 days to brief them on the review process and reassure
them about the future of the company.

Mr Fernandez Verdes has often staged the meetings on his own with groups of up to 15 managers.
There is ongoing uncertainty about the future of Leighton’s Hong Kong office in any future structure.
The Leighton Asia operation has now been grouped under the Leighton International banner in the
new structure announced earlier this month. But there is speculation that the Hong Kong office —
long a flagship for Leighton in the Asian region, could be dramatically scaled back.
Leighton’s stake in Devine has a face value of $76m but a clean sale of the stake or a takeover of the
group could prove difficult.

Earlier this year Leighton was forced to provide a $50m guarantee over Devine’s main debt facility at
the behest of ANZ Bank.

Page180of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Sources said the buyer of Leighton’s stake would need to cover the guarantee and line-up a
refinancing deal for Devine.

Devine has also booked impairments on a host of development sites which could make the business
less attractive, sources said.

“It will be a challenging process for Devine. The equity cheque will be a lot bigger than you think. I
expect that Leighton will probably sell Leighton Properties before it will sell its Devine stake.” An
analyst who declined to be named said the business was likely to be too small to attract a buyer like
Mirvac or Stockland.

Devine’s shares spiked on its formal confirmation of Leighton’s intentions to close up 7c at 95c.

The rise followed three straight days of declines after the release of the Leighton flyer but ahead of
Devine’s statement yesterday to the ASX.
The Australian was unable to reach Devine managing director David Keir for comment on the sale or
the company’s disclosure practices.
In a statement Mr Keir said the sale process by Leighton was preliminary. “There are no assurances
that a sale of the Leighton investment in Devine will be finalised.”PRIMESPACE P29

CO

IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

leiho : Leighton Holdings Ltd | hocht : Hochtief AG | ocisa : ACS Actividades de Construcciones y
Servicios SA
i502 : Heavy Construction | iconst : Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction
c182 : Asset Transactions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry
News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140625ea6q0001s

Page181of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.