CSG wells stake claim on Darling Downs

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

EARLY GENERAL NEWS
CSG wells stake claim on Darling Downs

MIKE FOLEY
748 words
11 September 2014
The Land
FTLAND
13
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

FARMING communities pondering the potential of a coal seam gas (CSG) future won't find a
better example than Origin Energy's Condabri gas field at Miles on the Darling Downs, Central
Queensland.

Even before touchdown at Miles' newly refurbished airport (upgrades courtesy of Origin) it is plain
to see the Darling Downs is bubbling with CSG activity.

Central Queensland is ground zero for Australia's onshore gas boom, and the closest thing other
States have to a CSG crystal ball.

However, as is often the case with NSW and Qld, it's worth pointing out some significant
differences between the neighbouring States.

From the air, Miles' paddocks and bushland are dotted with gas well pads; access roads
criss-cross between them, converging at production plants and holding ponds.

However, NSW's gas industry is notable only for its potential.

One relatively small gas field (see "NSW Trots Behind Queensland") is in operation and two are
under exploration.

Across the Darling Downs, dozens of different gas fields are ramping up to production.

Four companies are busy drilling thousands of wells across hundreds of properties.
Landholders receive compensation for each well on their property, but to date, payments have
not been disclosed by gas companies or landholders.

These payments have been sunk into farm enterprises, said Origin regional manager Rob Hart.

"We are seeing the next wave of investment on the back of the compensation payments," Mr Hart
said.

Origin had made more than 500 access agreements and negotiated every outcome without
resorting to legal proceedings, he said.

Miles has seen some big changes out in the paddocks and in the town.

A great grid of gas wells extends across Condabri about 500 in total, spaced roughly every 750
metres.

Each has an access road and is connected by underground gas and water pipes.
Salty water sucked up along with gas from one kilometre deep coal seams is piped through a
reverse osmosis facility and pumped back to farmers for irrigation.

Page318of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Osmosis removes salts and impurities from the groundwater, producing an impure mixture of
salts and chemicals, for which no commercial use has been found.
Origin will bury the salt from its gas operations in landfills double-lined with PVC.

Miles' population swelled by more than 2000 people during Condabri's construction, but the
workforce will shrink below 70 during the production phase.

During the construction influx, rental of a four-bedroom house hit $1000 a week and the
purchase price for the same sort of house reached $550,000, Mr Hart said.

Rentals had levelled off at $450 to $500 a week now the workforce has fallen, but new
construction rolled on as builders fulfilled contracts signed during the boom.

Nevertheless, local businesses have grown on gas.
Origin has 14 gas fields in development, spread from Roma to Chinchilla.

In Miles, McGuire's charter bus service grew from one local school run to a fleet of 35 buses
transporting workers from Brisbane to Miles.

A range of other businesses have benefited such as service stations, machinery shops, cafes
and accommodation.

Farmers' children have returned to the land.
Mr Hart grew up down the road on a farm in Chinchilla.

"There would be tumbleweeds rolling down the main street without gas," he said.
Origin has invested $3.8 million in affordable housing for its boom-town communities across the
Downs and delivered more than 38 scholarships for apprentices.
Santos, Arrow Energy and Queensland Gas Company are also developing gas on the Darling
Downs to the same scale as Origin.
Combined, the three companies' investment will total $70 billion.
A 500-kilometre pipeline will extend to Gladstone's Curtis Island export terminals.

Origin general manager strategic development Rebecca Pickering said there had only been
"minor areas of small erosion" along the pipeline, which crosses many dozens of private
landholdings.

Liquefied natural gas (LNG) will be produced and shipped to hungry Asian markets which will pay
three times as much as gas currently sells for in Australia.

Condabri is expected to produce for up to 15 years.

Origin said its Darling Downs overall plans could last 20 years.

For the next two decades gas exports will run, royalties will roll, farmers will get paid and irrigation
water will flow. What happens afterwards remains to be seen.

n Mike Foley travelled to Qld courtesy of Australian Petroleum Production and Exploration
Association.

boral : Origin Energy Ltd
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz
: Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FTLAND0020140910ea9b0002y

CO
IN
RE

PUB
AN

Search Summary

Page319of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Text

Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found
Timestamp

((chin* or hong kong)) and (
( (residential or site or commercial) and (casino resort or island or hotel or apartment
or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company or board or entitys) and
(transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) )
or
( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron or lead
or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or stake or
equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or firm or
company))
or
( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or equity
or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group or firm or
board) and (million* or billion* or B or M))
)
not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall Street
or Forex or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex)
and re=austr
01/09/2014 to 31/12/2014
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
2,847
28 August 2018 23:39

Page320of320©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.