Barnett dismisses Padbury’s port plan

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Barnett dismisses Padbury’s port plan

ANDREW BURRELL, INFRASTRUCTURE
574 words
16 April 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
19
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

WEST Australian Premier Colin Barnett has dismissed Padbury Mining’s ambitious $6.5 billion plan
to revive the Oakajee port and rail network as lacking “substance”, revealing that Chinese
conglomerate Citic Group could instead spearhead the long-stalled project.

Mr Barnett said yesterday he had met Citic Group chairman Chang Zhenming in Beijing last
weekend and was told the state-owned giant had been endorsed by the Chinese government to
drive China’s involvement in the Oakajee project.

The Premier, who has championed the project in the state’s Mid West region since the 1990s, said
he was confident Citic Group would lead Oakajee on behalf of the Chinese companies with mines in
the region, which include Sinosteel and Ansteel.

But the involvement of Citic Group in such a large-scale project would be a surprise given its
disastrous involvement in the $10bn Sino Iron magnetite mine in the Pilbara, which has involved
huge cost blowouts and an ongoing legal brawl with federal MP Clive Palmer.
Citic Group is the parent company of Citic Pacific, the Hong Kong-listed company that owns Sino
Iron. The two companies signed an agreement last month under which Citic Pacific will buy most of
its parent company’s assets for about 225 billion yuan ($38bn).

Mr Chang is the chairman of Citic Group and Citic Pacific.

Continued on Page 27 Continued from Page 19 Citic Pacific declined to comment yesterday and
referred inquiries to Citic Group in Beijing. But the company did not respond to requests for
comment about its potential interest in Oakajee.

The Oakajee port and rail infrastructure is aimed at servicing the emerging magnetite mines of the
Mid West and opening up a new export province.
Japanese company Mitsubishi last year abandoned plans to build Oakajee, citing weaker iron ore
prices and an inability to entice Chinese state-owned entities to commit the billions of dollars need
for the infrastructure.
Mr Barnett’s comments yesterday come as a major blow to Padbury Mining, which last week told the
ASX it had signed a deal with an unnamed Australian investor to stump up $6.5bn in equity to build
the deepwater port near Geraldton and a rail network through the region.

But Padbury was forced into a trading halt on Friday after the ASIC and the ASX demanded the
company reveal who is backing the ambitious plan. Padbury is due to reveal its backer before the
market opens tomorrow.

Padbury chief executive Gary Stokes told

Page94of259©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The Australian last week the announcement was genuine. But sources in the iron ore industry are
highly sceptical.

Asked about the Padbury plan yesterday, Mr Barnett said: “I don’t see that it has a great deal of
substance, but I’ve had no discussions with Padbury.” However, it is known that Padbury has held
talks with Mr Barnett’s Department of State Development.
Mr Barnett said he also believed that Chinese steelmaker Baosteel had received a mandate to lead
China’s involvement in the planned Anketell port project in the Pilbara.

“I was pleasantly surprised by their desire to get on with both the Anketell project in the Pilbara and
also to reinvigorate Oakajee,” he said.“So there’s still a way to go, but I am confident that Citic will
lead the Chinese interests in the Mid-West and Baosteel will lead Chinese interests in the Pilbara
through Anketell.”

citic : CITIC Group | rivgol : Padbury Mining Limited
i5020017 : Harbor Construction | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i502 : Heavy Construction | ibasicm :
Basic Materials/Resources | iconst : Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction | imet :
Mining/Quarrying | i2112 : Gold Ore/Silver Ore Mining | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles |
ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
china : China | austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging
Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140415ea4g0006u

CO
IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

Page95of259©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.