Global outlook pays off for investors

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

MarketWatch
Global outlook pays off for investors

David Rogers, Markets Editor
600 words
17 December 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
31
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

International outlook pays off for investors

While Australia’s first annual sharemarket loss in three years appears all but baked in, investors who
ploughed funds into international shares are set for another year of double-digit returns.

Currency-adjusted overseas share funds have delivered on average 16.5 per cent in the year to the end
of November, according to preliminary results from investment tracker Mercer. Australian share funds
over the same period delivered a more-subdued 4.7 per cent.
The performance of share funds are critical in the allocation of hundreds of billions of dollars of
investment mandates from superannuation funds, but the figures underscore the downbeat outlook for
the Australian sharemarket as the economy shifts down a gear on weakening commodity prices.

Australia’s benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index is down 3.7 per cent in the calander year to date, while the
MSCI World Index (in local dollars terms) rose 8.2 per cent. The dollar fell 8 per cent in the period,
boosting currency-adjusted returns for funds invested offshore.

Some of Australia’s biggest superannution funds, including Australian Super and UniSuper, now have
more funds tied up in offshore shares than the local market. At the same time, the $104 billion Future
Fund has more than a third of its holdings tied up in international shares, compared with just 9 per cent
in Australian equities.

But underscoring the challenges that global fund managers faced in the past 12 months from US interest
rate jitters, plunging commodity prices and wars in Ukraine and the Middle East, the “passive” or
index-hugging funds returned slightly better than their “active” counterparts.

“Weaker relative performance from emerging markets and Europe negatively impacted the returns of
many long-only global managers compared with the benchmark, which has meant that the
index-tracking funds have outperformed the average active manager in offshore markets in the past 12
months,” Mercer principal Clare Armstrong said. “Exposure to falling commodity prices, particularly oil
and iron ore, also crimped the performance of many managers in both domestic and offshore funds in
November.” Elsewhere, Australian-focused hedge funds notched up just 6 per cent in the year to
November, but offshore hedge funds returned a hefty 20.4 per cent. Allan Gray Australian share fund
was the best performer of the local shares, returning 14.4 per cent over the year to November. Lazard’s
Select Australian equity fund emerged as the strongest perfomer on a three-year measure, delivering
22 per cent.

While the Reserve Bank is expected to cut interest rates next year, and the falling dollar will help
companies that sell products overseas, Australia is slowing down as the economy struggles to rebalance
after a decade-long mining boom.

The US economy is broadly accelerating after three rounds of quantitative easing — money-printing and
bond-buying — by the Federal Reserve.

Page40of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Japan ramped up its bond-buying recently and Europe is expected to launch full-scale quantitative
easing early next year to support economic growth and head off deflation And lower commodity prices,
particularly in the case of crude oil, are expected to have a much greater positive impact on countries
such as Japan, China, the US and Europe.“A key macro trend for 2015 will be a continuation of the
dispersion seen during 2014—that is, the disparities between various countries or economic regions in
terms of growth and monetary policy, and corresponding differences in the direction of many financial
markets,” said Guy Bruten, Asia Pacific economist for AllianceBernstein.

NS

RE
PUB
AN

m16 : Fund Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141216each0001d

Page41of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.