Vineyards beckon

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Vineyards beckon

Michael Bleby
738 words
29 July 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
41
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

The Barossa Valley's Schild Estate is the latest winery business to go on the block, as it seeks to tap
the growing investor interest in a sector long dogged by oversupply and low prices.
Chairman Ed Schild is looking to sell an 80 per cent stake in the brand and its 50,000-case-a-year
winery facilities. While the block on which the winery is located has 2.5 hectares planted with vines and
has space for another 12 hectares, the family-owned business is not planning to sell the 125ha of
vineyards it uses to supply the winery and other clients.

Mr Schild said recent deals such as those of the April deal struck by the Coonawarra Hollick family
made him think now was a good time to sell a majority stake in the mid-sized winery he started in the
late 1990s.

"Two years ago, I would never have dreamed of doing something like this," the 73-year-old Mr Schild
told The Australian Financial Review.

"I don't think the interest would have been there."

A fall in the value of vineyards – from as high as $100,000 per hectare at the pre-GFC peak to more
like $70,000 for one with top Barossa shiraz vines now – is sparking interest in both productive land
and the businesses producing wine and vendors are trying to make the most of it. Last week
Australian Vintage Limitedsold its Barossa Yaldara brand and winery to a Chinese-owned, SA-based
1847 Winery for $15.5 million. More than 200 hectares of vineyards in SA and NSW have hit the
market since this year's harvest season ended.

In an industry where conditions remain tough, bargain seekers are out in force, as seen in private
equity firmKKR's rejected bid in April for Treasury Wine Estates, or elsewhere. Vendors have become
more realistic in their expectations, says broker Stephen Strachan, of Gaetjens Langley, which is
selling Schild.

"There is real opportunity for cashed up, countercyclical investors to take advantage of low entry
costs," agency Colliers' latest Rural & Agribusiness report says.

While the industry has been hurting for a long time, people are now more frank about the fact, said
Marc Allgrove, of Evans & Ayers, a wine business consulting firm.

"Every vineyard is effectively on the market," he said.
Veteran winemaker Brian Croser, who sold his listed Petaluma business to Lion Nathan in 2001,
agrees the low prices are spurring buyers.

"There are well-heeled organisations that see potential at current prices," he said.Consolidation under
way

Page127of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Consolidation is under way. Many say it is necessary in a wine industry that quadrupled its number of
producers from 620 in 1990 to 2420 in 2010 and is highly fragmented.

More than a fifth of the current 2573 producers – 557 – crush less than 10 tonnes of grapes a year.
Whether Schild will fetch its asking price – understood to be between $18 million and $20 million – is
unclear.

Prices may have to fall further.

"There still needs to be a little bit more reality in terms of vendor expectations in value before we start
to see significant movement in the exchanging of assets," Andrew Cheeseman, the former chief
executive of industry body Wine Australia and now a consultant to the industry, said.

"Buyers are looking at a value based on earnings multiples, while sellers' expectations are based on
asset base. There's quite a gap between the two methodologies."

Warrick Duthy, the general manager of Clare Valley-based Kilikanoon Wines and director of the
UK agricultural investor Vestey family's wine investments, says the pickings are good for owners of
strong branded businesses with established distribution channels who want to expand.
"Now's a good time to get out and buy vineyards which fit that supply chain strategy," Mr Duthy said.
US investor Peter Kight, who bought the Torbreck wine business in 2008, last month did just that,
purchasing a number of Barossa vineyards, including one producing fruit for The Laird, Torbreck's
single vineyard shiraz that retails for $900 a bottle. In May, Chinese investors purchased the Hunter
Valley's prime Black Cluster vineyard in Mistletoe Lane, Pokolbin.

Mr Duthy said in December he advised the Vestey family, which owns Delatite in northeast Victoria
and The Lane in SA's Hahndorf, to focus on those two investments before buying more assets.

IN

RE
PUB
AN

i426 : Wine | ireest : Real Estate | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | ialco : Alcoholic Beverages/Drinks |
ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods | icre : Real Estate/Construction
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140728ea7t0002h

Page128of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.