Consortium sweetens bid for Australia's Goodman Fielder

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Consortium sweetens bid for Australia's Goodman Fielder

286 words
16 May 2014
Nikkei Report
NKRP
English
© Copyright 2014. Nihon Keizai Shimbun, Inc. All rights reserved.

TOMOMI KIKUCHI, Nikkei Staff Writer
SINGAPORE -- A Singapore-Hong Kong consortium on Thursday sweetened its takeover offer for
Goodman Fielder, a big Australian food and beverage maker. The offer price is now 0.70 Australian
dollars ($0.65) per share. Singapore-listed agribusiness groupWilmar International and Hong
Kong-listed investment management firm First Pacific Company last month offered A$0.65 per share.

The revised offer values Goodman Fielder at approximately A$1.37 billion. The new offer price
represents a 33% premium over Goodman Fielder's closing price on April 23. Wilmar and First Pacific
"will not increase the price further in the absence of a competing proposal," the parties said in a
statement.
For Goodman Fielder to move ahead with the proposed offer, the Australian company's board is
required to provide due diligence and announce that it will unanimously recommend that shareholders
vote in favor of the proposal by 8 tonight Melbourne time. Trading in Goodman Fielder shares has been
halted.

Wilmar International, the world's largest palm oil trader, already holds 10.1% of Goodman Fielder's
shares. In the announcement, made Thursday, First Pacific also said it has entered into agreements
with Goodman Fielder's two largest shareholders to acquire 4.8% of the company's shares at the
revised offer price of A$0.70 per share.
Goodman Fielder is listed in Australia and New Zealand. It makes dairy products as well as sauces
and cooking oils. In April, the Goodman Fielder rejected the initial offer, which valued the firm at
A$1.271 billion. Goodman Fielder then issued a statement saying the proposal "materially
undervalues" its business and is "opportunistic."

CO
IN
NS

RE
IPC
PUB
AN

fdgl : Goodman Fielder Ltd
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp : Consumer Goods
c184 : Joint Ventures | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
EG001000
Nikkei Digital Media Inc.
Document NKRP000020140516ea5g00039

Page69of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.