Asian companies make joint bid for Goodman Fielder

HD
BY
Clint Jasper
WC 322 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

16 May 2014
Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC) News
ABCNEW
English
(c) 2014 Australian Broadcasting Corporation

Asian companies make joint bid for Goodman Fielder

TD

CO
IN
NS

Two Asian companies are making a joint bid to takeover Australian food companyGoodman Fielder.
Singapore-based agribusiness companyWilmar International and Hong Kong investment firm First
Pacific initially offered 65c a share on the 28th of April, in a bid that was dismissed by Goodman Fielder's
chairman, Steven Gregg and chief executive, Chris Delaney.

The offering has now been lifted to 70c a share, and board of Goodman Fielder has until 8pm AEST to
decide on that offer.
Goodman Fielder shares are in a trading halt until Monday, unless the company makes a decision
sooner.
The company owns bread brands like Helga's, Mighty Soft and Wonder White, as well as brands of
baking products, dairy foods, spreads and salad dressings.
Agribusiness analyst at PAC Partners, Paul Jensz, says in recent times the company has had difficulty
growing its earnings, and as a result the 70c a share offer, which values the deal at $1.37 billion, is a
reasonable offer.

He says Goodman Fielder's difficulty with earning growth has also made it a target for investors.
"Obviously when you're looking to buy as asset, you try and make your bid when things are tough for
your target, so that's played a role, for sure," Mr Jensz said.

Unlike high profile takeovers in the agribusiness and food manufacturing space in the past year, this deal
is not expected to drag out.

"The fact they're in a trading halt and they're talking to the potential acquirer, that's quickening things up a
bit.

"There have been bids in the past where, say with Graincorp, they prolonged that engagement, this is
quite a quick engagement over the last few weeks.

"But the resolution comes down to the detail of the acquirer and the target and the investors finding a
common ground and that can take some time."

fdgl : Goodman Fielder Ltd
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp : Consumer Goods
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cacqu : Acquisitions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin
: FC&E Industry News Filter
saustr : South Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia

RE
IPD goodman
PUB Australian Broadcasting Corporation

Page56of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AN

Document ABCNEW0020140516ea5g00031

Page57of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.