Online media companies must plunder ‘rivers of gold ’ offshore to stay strong

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Media
Online media companies must plunder ‘rivers of gold’ offshore to stay strong

Darren Davidson, Stocks
653 words
21 April 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
20
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

EXCLUSIVE THE online companies that captured Fairfax Media’s “rivers of gold” need to plunder
advertising revenues in offshore markets if they are to remain popular media stocks, a broker has
warned.

Fairfax’s catastrophic loss of the classified advertising market to the internet was famously
documented last year in Pamela Williams’s book Killing Fairfax.

As the “rivers of gold” dried up, Williams pieced together the beginnings of a new wave of hungry
internet start-ups backed by businessmen Lachlan Murdoch and James Packer: REA, Carsales, and
Seek.

The sites, known as the “three amigos”, all benefited from a migration of advertising dollars online
that began at the turn of the century, and CIMB analyst Daniel Blair has urged them to repeat the
trick overseas to maintain their earnings trajectory.

“We believe there are large offshore growth opportunities, either from existing investments or
potential acquisitions,” CIMB analyst Daniel Blair said.

The share prices and earnings multiples of Carsales, Seek and REA are trading at their highest, but
there is evidence the online advertising migration is starting to mature.

Automotive website Carsales, jobs website Seek and real estate business REA have shifted their
focus to yield in their core domestic markets to counter the plateau effect. They have also expanded
overseas, with Seek leading the way, and Carsales and REA becoming more active in the past 12
months.

Mr Blair believes Carsales should shift its focus firmly overseas as advertising expenditure in the
automotive industry stagnates, and the competition regulator blocks local investment.

The exit of large car manufacturers from Australia is also reducing marketing activity.

Last month, Carsales chief executive Greg Roebuck fired a shot across the bow of the competition
watchdog, saying a ruling blocking a domestic acquisition forced the company to work harder at
identifying overseas assets.

“The ACCC (Australian Competition & Consumer Commission) doesn’t want Carsales to grow in
Australia so we will continue to look offshore,’’ Mr Roebuck told The Australian.

Mr Roebuck was prevented from buying classifieds business Trading Post from Telstra. The ACCC
opposed the sale on the ground it would reduce competition in the car classifieds market. Carsales
said the acquisition would give the struggling business a lifeline, while insiders at Telstra have
described the classified arm as a hard sell.

Page153of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“This all points to a focus on offshore,” Mr Blair said. “In particular, Brazil looks a very large
opportunity. New opportunities also exist in India and auto looks set to follow the path that Seek has
taken in employment.” REA’s share price has more than doubled in the past year, and the company
is now capitalised at $6.1 billion.
The company, which is 62 per cent owned by News Corp Australia, publisher of The Australian, is
planning to use a strong balance sheet to enlarge a footprint that already includes Italy and Hong
Kong.

“This is a stock with earning momentum, so a catalyst is required before this is not in favour,” Mr
Blair said.

Under chief executive Andrew Bassat, Seek has made a concerted push into Asia recently, and took
another step in its international expansion by investing $US5 million ($5.3m) for a 25 per cent stake
in Bangladesh’s leading online employment marketplace, bdjobs.com.
In March, the company paid $580m to acquire online Asian employment business JobStreet.

“This is one where you can get quite excited about the strategy, recent success and execution,” Mr
Blair said.

Seek has the most competitive challenges in its vertical from players such as LinkedIn, but Mr Blair
believes the company is well positioned for growth.

“Seek is a well-managed operator with solid prospects from its domestic employment business with
strong growth from its international investments,” he said.CIMB’s top pick is Carsales, while Seek is
a hold, and REA has a reduce rating.

NS
RE
PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140420ea4l0006j

Page154of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.