Interfax Russia & CIS Food and Agriculture Weekly

Interfax Russia & CIS Food and Agriculture Weekly

HD
WC 15,570 words
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

20 November 2014
07:13
Interfax: Russia & CIS Food & Agriculture Weekly
FOAGR
English
(c) 2014 Interfax Information Services, B.V.

TD

MOSCOW. Nov 19 (Interfax) - In Russia, 105.7 million tonnes of grain and grain legume crops (in bunker
weight) were harvested as of November 1, which is 16.1% than on the same date last year, the Federal
State Statistics Service (Rosstat) said on Wednesday.
In particular, the harvest at agricultural organizations amounted to 79 million tonnes.

In Crimea 1.1 million tonnes of grain were threshed, which is 58.8% more than on the same date of last
year.
The harvest of sunflower seeds at farms of all categories was 8.1 million tonnes (down 1.5%). Sugar beet
harvest was 28.6 million tonnes (down 2%). The potato harvest amounted to 30.5 million tonnes (up
2.8%) and 13.8 million tonnes of vegetables were harvested (up 0.5%).

Rosstat said that by November 1, grain and grain legume crops were threshed from 91.8% of the planted
area, of this grain corn from 79.8%. Potatoes were harvested from 99% of the planting area and
vegetables from 97%. Sugar beets were gathered from 89.9% of the area and sunflower seeds from
83.7%.

As in previous years, the main share of grain (74.7%), sugar beets (89.5%) and sunflower seeds (70.6%)
were grown at agricultural organizations, potatoes (80.8%) and vegetables (70.7%) at small farms.

At private farms, 24.5% of the total grain harvest was gathered (level with 2013), sugar beets 9.8%
(9.6%), sunflower seeds 29% (28.6%) and vegetables 13.2% (level with 2013).

According to data of the Russian Agriculture Ministry, which are based on operating information of the
regional authorities for the management of agriculture, on October 31 (there was no data for November 1)
108 million tonnes of grain in bunker weight was harvested.
Russia exported 16.242 million tonnes of grain between July 1 and November 12, 2014, which was 39%
more than it did in the same period of last year (11.7 million tonnes), the Russian Agriculture Ministry
said.
Most exports, 13.2 million tonnes, were wheat. Barley exports totaled 2.2 million tonnes, corn - 658,000
tonnes, and other grain - 140,000 tonnes.

The ministry also said the world grain market saw an increase in prices last week due to unfavorable
weather conditions for harvesting in a number of grain producing countries.

As of November 13, average export prices for soft wheat to the U.S. (FOB, Gulf of Mexico) were $242 per
tonne. The price grew by $8, or 5.2%, over the week.
The Agriculture Ministry said the country's export potential totaled 30 million tonnes for this year. Experts
from the grain market have said some 20 million tonnes of grain would be exported before the end of
2014.

MOSCOW. Nov 13 (Interfax) – Russian grain exports in the current agricultural year (July 2014-June
2015) will top 20 million tonnes by the end of December, Russian Grain Union President Arkady

Page205of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Zlochevsky forecast. He also said it is not worth counting on China as a large buyer of Russian grain,
particularly wheat. Meanwhile, Jordan has asked Russia to supply nearly double the amount of grain it did
last year and Russia's UGC said it has shipped about 50,000 tonnes of grain to North Korea and
Nicaragua in November as humanitarian aid.

Grain exports
"Total exports by New Year's will definitely top 20 million tonnes of grain and we expect the total for the
entire season [agricultural year] in the neighborhood of 32 million-32.5 million tonnes," Zlochevsky said
on Thursday.
Russia exported 25.4 million tonnes of grain in the previous farm year.
It has exported 18 million tonnes of grain since July 1, Zlochevsky said. "Everything is within the forecast
parameters. The current exchange rate picture facilitates maintenance of high export rates; the weakening
rule is stimulating grain exports," he said.

It is also firming up prices on the domestic market, he said. "In addition, after a fairly strong decline in
October futures, prices have begun recovering somewhat, at least, in the last three days prices have
risen. This is also a driver of domestic prices," Zlochevsky said.

The current price of Class 3 wheat is 8,300-8,400 rubles/tonne in the central regions, 8,000 rubles/t in the
Volga region, 7,800 rubles/t in Southern Urals and 8,100 rubles/t in Siberia. Class 4 wheat is cheaper by
500-600 rubles/t and fodder wheat prices are lower by 1,000 rubles/t, he said.

Prices for flour, which normally lag grain prices by four to six weeks, are flat at the moment. "Grain millers
will have to bump up prices," Zlochevsky said. The price of top grade flour is currently averaging 13,000
rubles/t.

Grain prices will rise in the short term, he said. "Going forward, prices will move with the dollar exchange
rate," he said.
The grain harvest this year will total about 104 million tonnes, according to Russian Grain Union
forecasts. "To be more exact: 103.7 million tonnes," Zlochevsky said, noting that the harvest forecast
"has returned to the initial, midsummer figure," down from the 105 million tonnes forecast in October. The
wheat harvest will total 59 million-60 million tonnes, he added.
Chinese demand
It is not worth counting on China as a large buyer of Russian grain, particularly wheat, Zlochevsky said.
"It's not worth placing bets that China will buy our grain 'like a blue streak,'" he said.

Zlochevsky added that talks were underway concerning the terms of grain shipments from Russia to
China. "But we are well aware that without a political decision from the Chinese authorities, this issue will
not be resolved. It's necessary to remove obstacles stemming from phytosanitary measures that simply
cannot be carried out currently. On the basis of the requirements the Chinese phytosanitary service has
set for Russian grain, it's always possible to close shipments," he said.
Zlochevsky said that even if the issue received a positive response, China would not make large
purchases of Russian grain. This is shown by the experience of Kazakhstan, which exports grain to
China, he said, adding that volumes have not yet exceeded 100,000 tonnes per year.
Discussing China's need for imported wheat, Zlochevsky said: "In certain years, procurement volumes
abroad reach up to 6-7 million tonnes, but this happens when there is no need to import wheat." In
addition, he said China was one of the world's largest wheat producers with an average of 120 million
tonnes.
Zlochevsky also said it was possible that China's need for Russian grain would disappear at some point.
"China has tasked its scientists with developing genetically modified wheat by 2015 that is resistant to rust
and drought, and [China] is planning to launch an informational propaganda campaign on overcoming
negative views towards genetically modified products. If this is done, there will be no need for Russian
grain," he said

Agriculture Minister Nikolai Fyodorov said on Wednesday that talks on shipments of Russian grain to
China were over.

Jordanian request

Page206of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Meanwhile, Jordan has asked Russia to supply nearly double the amount of grain it did last year,
Agriculture Minister Nikolai Fyodorov said at the conclusion of the second session of the
Russian-Jordanian intergovernmental commission to develop economic and technical-scientific
cooperation in Moscow on Thursday.

"Our goal, alongside major projects such as construction of the first nuclear power plant in Jordan, is to
practically double Russian grain shipments to Jordan," Fyodorov said. "Russia currently supplies about
25% of the grain that Jordan imports. Jordan is asking that we double that share to 50%," he said.

Jordan in turn expects to substantially increase deliveries of fruit and vegetables to Russia, he said.

During the meeting, the two sides agreed that trade needed to grow not just by increasing volumes of
existing trade goods, but by broadening the assortment of goods traded and by more deeply diversifying
trade and economic relations between the two countries, the Agriculture Ministry reported.

Russia exported 393,000 tonnes of grain to Jordan in the latest agricultural year (July 2013-June 2014),
including 111,000 tonnes of barley, according to data from ProZerno LLC.

North Korean, Nicaraguan aid
Elsewhere, United Grain Company (UGC), the Russian government's agent for the federal grain
intervention fund, shipped about 50,000 tonnes of grain to North Korea and Nicaragua in November as
humanitarian aid.

Overall aid to North Korea exceeded 46,000 tonnes, UGC told Interfax. The first ship with 23,000 tonnes
set sail from the Novorossiysk port in early August and a second ship with the same amount of grain
departed in November.

At the beginning of this week, UGC dispatched a ship carrying 25,000 tonnes of grain from the reserves of
the intervention fund to Nicaragua.

The humanitarian aid is being provided under orders from the Russian president and government, issued
on the basis of intergovernmental agreements.

UGC was founded on March 20, 2009 to develop grain market infrastructure, realize the export potential of
Russian grain and conduct trading on the domestic grain market.
As its contribution to UGC's equity, the government gave the company stakes in 30 enterprises located
in 18 regions of the country. The government now owns 50% plus one share of UGC and the second
largest shareholder is the Summa Group.
BARNAUL. Nov 18 (Interfax) - The Altai Territory plans to export flour and cereals to China, chief of the
territorial food processing, pharmaceutical and bioengineering industries department Tatyana Zelenina
told journalists.

"We will ask the Agriculture Ministry and the federal veterinary and phytosanitary oversight service
Rosselkhoznadzor to extend the list of grain processing products cleared to be exported to China," she
said.
The region could export some 300,000 tonnes of flour to Chinese partners each year, Zelenina also said.
"We have capacities large enough to produce 1.8 million tonnes of flour annually, so we could quietly
produce an extra 300,000 tonnes of flour to be exported to China," she said.

Besides flour, Altai grain processing companies would like to export cereals and mixed fodder. The Altai
territory's production potential could grow significantly due to exports to the Chinese market, she said.

"If companies see markets, they will be encouraged to upgrade production facilities, expand production
and enter these markets, Zelenina said.

Altai Territory is one of Russia's main flour producers.
ASTANA. Nov 17 (Interfax) - Kazakhstan will this year harvest 17.6 million tonnes of grain in clean
weight, Minister of Agriculture Asylzhan Mamytbekov said.
"We expect this year's grain harvest to come to about 17.6 million tonnes in clean weight, as a result of
which our export potential will reach 7 million tonnes," he said.

Page207of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Kazakh farmers have already harvested 18.3 million tonnes of grain to date from 14.5 million ha or
96.5% of the area under crop.

This year the harvested campaign was hindered by heavy rains in most of the agricultural regions.
In 2013 Kazakhstan harvested 20 million tonnes of grain and legume in net weight and 18.2 million
tonnes in clean weight, wheat accounting for 76.5% of the harvest.
He also said the Agriculture Ministries of Kazakhstan and Russia are discussing grain swap operations to
cut transport costs. "As for the grain hub, we received a few proposals including the one from Russia to
create a united grain holding," Mamytbekov said.

The Ministry finds this plan feasible, "given that so many Russian regions have to transport grain from the
south of Russia, Krasnodar region and Stavropol at high transportation costs," he said.

Swap contracts may be beneficial for both countries. "For example, the Moscow and St. Petersburg
markets are equal to the Kazakh market in terms of grain consumption. We could supply grain to Moscow,
and import Russian grain from the Black Sea," he said.

This way the parties could cut transportation costs, Mamytbekov said.
He also said current prices for bread and first grade flour in Kazakhstan will remain stable until September
next year. "The state committee has made a decision to keep the price of bread and flour of the first grade
stable until September of next year. No sharp spike in prices will occur," he told reporters.

KYZYLORDA. Nov 17 (Interfax) - Zhan Arai Zhem LLP in December this year plans to start up a feed mill
in Kyzylorda, the regional administration reported.
The plant has design capacity of 80 tonnes of fodder per day. The total cost of the project is 376 million
tenge, with 49% contributed by Baikonur Civic-Entrepreneurial Corporation (CEC) and 51% of company's
own funds.
The company will also build a 150-tonne rice mill, storage facilities, a lab, packing plant, flour mill and
pasta line.

The production waste generated at these production facilities will be used by a feed mill.
MOSCOW. Nov 14 (Interfax) - EuroChem Group AG, the holding company of the EuroChemgroup,
posted net loss of $240.5 million for the third quarter of 2014 versus profit of $92.6 million a year before,
the company said in a press release.
This is holding company's first quarterly report. EuroChem Group AG was registered in July in Zug,
Switzerland.

"Below the operating profit line, we recognized unrealized financial foreign exchange losses of $370
million, as opposed to a $32 unrealized gain in the third quarter of 2013. The changes observed in these
noncash items reflect the fluctuations of the Russian ruble exchange rate on the company's primarily US
dollar-denominated debt," the press release says.
The falling ruble caused the group's earnings before taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA) to
rise 4% in Q3 to $364.57 million. Revenue fell 4.4% in Q3 to $1.187 billion.
Revenue fell 6% in January-September 2014 to $3.941 billion, while EBITDA grew 2.3% to $1.09 billion.
Net profit fell to $63.17 million from $307.8 million in the same period of last year.

As of September 30, 2014, the strengthening of the dollar brought net working capital down to $676
million form $815 million in the previous quarter. "The year-on-year decrease mainly reflected the effects
of the US dollar against the ruble-based prices for finished goods and raw materials at our operations
within Russia," the company said.
The group's debt in loans was $2.4 billion as of September 30, up 6% from the beginning of the year.
This included $525 million in current debt.
"As at September 30, 2014, the Group had a net debt to 12-month rolling EBITDA ratio of 2.14x, as
compared to 2.19x at the end of September 2013. As part of the Group's ongoing corporate
reorganization, approximately 70% of debt will be transferred from AO MCC EuroChem to the
Swiss-based holding company. EuroChem Group AG covenant calculations will be based on the US$,
the Group's reporting currency. As a result of this change, management expects a reduction in net
leverage to below 2.0x. For the twelve-month period ended 30 September 2014, had covenant

Page208of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.calculations been based on USD, as opposed to Russian rubles, the Group's net debt to EBITDA ratio
would have been 1.92x," the press release reads.
Capex was $346 million in the third quarter, of which $140 million was used on potash projects, $97
million on the phosphate segment and $84 million on the nitrogen segment.
"Third quarter sales volumes, excluding raw material mining and hydrocarbons, amounted to 4.0 million
tonnes (MMT), which represented a 14% increase on the 3.5 MMT sold in the third quarter of 2013. Sales
volumes for the first nine months of the year climbed 12% year-on-year to 12.7 MMT," EuroChem said.
Sales in the nitrogen segment advanced 12% in Q3 to 2.088 million tonnes, while revenue from this
segment increased 5.7% to $712 million.

Sales in the phosphate segment fell 9% to 513,000 tonnes, mostly due to an 18% drop in feed phosphates
and a 15% drop in nitrogen-phosphorus fertilizer. Sales of iron ore and baddeleyite fell 9% to 1.433
million tonnes.
EuroChem Group AG owns 89.83% of shares in OJSC EuroChem Mineral and Chemical Company,
which plans to transfer to the new Swiss-based company foreign assets and no less than 70% of the
group's debt. This includes a five-year club loan of $1.3 billion raised in August 2013, as well as
obligations on bilateral loans. EuroChem Mineral and Chemical Company will continue to carry
obligations on Eurobonds totaling $750 million and ruble bonds amounting to 10 billion rubles.
EuroChem Group AG will become the group's capital center.

LONDON. Nov 12 (Interfax) - International ratings agency Fitch has affirmed the Long-term Issuer Default
Ratings in foreign and national currency on EuroChem at "BB" with stable outlook, the agency said in a
press release.
A "BB" rating was also assigned to recently creating holding company EuroChem Group AG, registered
in Switzerland. Outlook is also stable.

EuroChem's long-term national scale rating was affirmed at "AA-(rus" with stable outlook, while the
short-term issuer default rating in foreign currency is at "B."
"The affirmation reflects Fitch expectations for EuroChem's funds from operations (FFO) adjusted net
leverage (leverage) to decline to 2.3x-2.4x over the next two years from 2.8x at end-2013 and against 2.5x
in our negative rating sensitivity guidance. The ratings are underpinned by EuroChem's high 'BB'
business profile with self-sufficiency in ammonia and phosphates in Russia, strong market presence in
Europe and CIS, and robust diversification across fertilizer products," Fitch said.
"Factors constraining the ratings include the company's sizeable investments in two potash projects,
inherent price volatility in the fertiliser sector and the corporate governance discount Fitch typically applies
to most Russian issuers," the press release says.
In 2014, EuroChem is planning to switch to a divisional operations management structure. The holding
has five divisions: sales, logistics, fertilizers, mining, and oil and gas.
The EuroChemGroup includes five production facilities in Russia - OJSC Nevinnomysskiy Azot, OJSC
Novomoskovskiy Azot (NAK Azot), Phosphorit, Belorechensk Minudobreniya and Kovdorskiy GOK - as
well as the Lifosa phosphate fertilizer plant in Lithuania and the EuroChem Antwerpen factory in Belgium.
Andrei Melnichenko is the company's main beneficiary.

MOSCOW. Nov 14 (Interfax) - A consortium of Indian companies led by the state-controlled National
Mines Development Corporation (NMDC) might close a deal by the end of this year to buy a 30% stake in
the potash project of Acron, a major Russian mineral fertilizer producer.

Indian media reported that the consortium of NMDC, Rashtriya Chemicals and Fertilizers (RCF), National
Fertilizers Ltd (NFL), Fertilizers and Chemicals Travancore Ltd (FACT) and Kribhco is holding negotiations
to buy 30% of Acron itself. However, Acron said earlier that the talks concerned the possible sale of a
30% stake in the operator of the potash project, CJSC Verkhnekamsk Potash Company (VPC), to Indian
investors.
The Economic Times reported that the deal could be worth INR10 billion (about $162 million). This is
more than a third less than the valuation of VPC in a deal Acron made with Sberbank Investments in
February, when Acron sold 19.9% of VPC to Sberbank Investments for 6.7 billion rubles (about $186
million).

Page209of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The agreement on the purchase could be signed this year during President Vladimir Putin's visit to India,
the newspaper reported.

India also plans to sign an off-take contract with Acron on potash supplies for the country's farmers.

It was reported a year ago that the issue of Indian investors buying into the phosphate and potash projects
of Acron was discussed during Putin's talks with then Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. A source at
Acron confirmed to Interfax at the time that negotiations were being held.

Acron, through VPC, is developing the Talitsky section of the Verkhnekamsk potassium and magnesium
salts deposit. In the fall of 2013, Acron pushed back the launch of the potash project from 2016 to 2021,
and the timetable for the mine to reach full capacity of 2 million tonnes of potash per year from 2018 to
2023.

Acron also partially changed the investors in the project, buying out 10.95% of VPC shares from
Raiffeisenbank and then selling 19.9% of the subsidiary to Sberbank Investments. The deal left Acron with
51% of VPC; state lender VEB holds 20% minus one share and the Eurasian Development Bank holds
9.1%.
India had been interested for years in buying part of the state stake in Belarusian potash giant Belaruskali.
There was talk of acquiring a stake of 20% or slightly more, but the issue never advanced to substantive
negotiations between representatives of Indian companies and the Belarusian government.
India, the world's second largest potash market after China, is expected to import 3.7 million-4 million
tonnes of potash this year.

MOSCOW. Nov 14 (Interfax) - Russian mineral fertilizer producer Acron cut net loss to Russian
Accounting Standards (RAS) 19% year-on-year in January-September 2014 to 2.557 billion rubles, the
company said in a report.
"A weaker ruble adversely affected the Company's net profit due to revaluation of foreign currency loans.
It is important to remember that this revaluation was non-monetary and that Acron's RAS net profit does
not reflect the actual situation. The RAS financial statements are not consolidated and do not include the
results of other companies in the Group. The RAS statements also do not reflect the actual profit from
sale of part of our Uralkalistake," Acron First Vice President Alexander Popov was cited as saying in the
report.
Revenue grew 2.6% to 26.665 billion rubles.
Profit from sales was 8.8 billion rubles, having increased 12%. The main reason for this was the rise in
product sales volume.

Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) grew by 14% amid the weakening
of the ruble and were 9.515 billion rubles. EBITDA margin was 36% against 32% a year earlier.
The amount of long-term debt liabilities as of September 30 was 27.035 billion rubles, having fallen 5% in
comparison with the beginning of the year. Short-term liabilities rose by 37% to 44.6 billion rubles.

The Acron holding is one of Russia's largest mineral fertilizer producers, including compound fertilizers
(NPK and bulk blends) and (urea, AN, UAN). Its main production enterprises are OJSC Acron (Veliky
Novgorod), OJSC Dorogobuzh (Smolensk region), Hongri Acron (China), North-Western Phosphorous
Company (Murmansk region), Verkhnekamsk Potash Company (Perm territory) in which Acron has a
70.9% stake and North Atlantic Potash Inc (Canada).

Vyacheslav Kantor controls Acron via Subero Associates.
In H1 Acron sold a 0.64% stake in Uralkali for $87 million.

MOSCOW. Nov 14 (Interfax) - OJSC Dorogobuzh, which is part of Russian mineral fertilizer producer
Acron, saw net profit to Russian Accounting Standards (RAS) fall 30% in January-September 2014 to 2.35
billion rubles, the company said in a report.
Revenue declined 9% to 12.225 billion rubles.
MOSCOW. Nov 19 (Interfax) - Russia increased production of meat, sunflower oil and cheese in October,
while milk production dropped.
Production of meat and by products grew 14.8% year-on-year in October to 1.6 million tonnes. Meat
production increased 12%in the 10 months.

Page210of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Russia produced 10% more poultry year-on-year in October and 7.7% more in the 10 months to 3.2
million tonnes, the Russian Statistics Service reported.
Sausage output rose 5.4% in January-October, but at 1.4 million tonnes was down 0.1% on the previous
October.
Unrefined sunflower oil output climbed 9.3% in October and 26.1% in the ten months to 3.2 million
tonnes.
Russia produced 17.9% more cheese and cheese products in October and 11% more in January-October
to 402,000 tonnes. The increase was attributed to increased demand for Russian cheese due to the food
embargo that was introduced in early August.
Production of milk went down 1% in October and 0.9% in the 10 months to 4.5 million tonnes. Russia
produced 0.3% more kefir in October but there was a drop of 1.2% in the ten months to 918,000 tonnes.

Production of wheat and muslin flower dropped 1.8% in October and 2.1% in January-October to 7.2
million tonnes. Production of short storage life baked goods fell 1.4% in October and 1.8% in the ten
months to 5.2 million tonnes.

MOSCOW. Nov 13 (Interfax) - Canadian pork producers will not be able to return to the Russian market
after Russia lifts restrictions on food imports because the Federal Veterinary and Phyto-Sanitary Oversight
Service (Rosselkhoznadzor) is banning imports of this meat effective November 14, and the same fate
awaits U.S. poultry farmers.

Imports of these products are currently banned under the restrictions on food imports that Russia imposed
on August 7 for a period of one year.

The head of the Russian food safety watchdog, Sergei Dankvert told Interfax that the ban on Canadian
pork is being imposed the Canadian authorities have not completed work on determining why
ractopamine, a drug used to promote leanness in animals, is getting into pork and have not worked out a
plan to detect harmful substances.

"They gave guarantees that they would take steps to carry out Russian requirements, but as practice has
shown this was not done, so we were forced to impose restrictions," Dankvert said.

Now Rosselkhoznadzor, taking advantage of the pause in trade, due in part to the food embargo, will build
relations on a new foundation, Dankvert said. He said that in Canada the veterinary service answers to
two ministries - healthcare and agriculture.

"We need to understand which institution provides real guarantees of safety, whose guarantees we can
accept," Dankvert said.

"On the whole, we should relaunch the mechanism of giving Canadian pork companies access to the
Russian market, but one thing is already clear, that the companies in whose products ractopamine was
found will not return to us," Dankvert said.

He also said that Canadian shrimp might be banned after the food embargo is lifted. "Harmful substances
were constantly being found in them, the veterinary service does not have a sound system for
investigating violations," Dankvert said.

He also said that American poultry farmers might not return to the Russian market after Russia lifts its
food import restrictions because the watchdog also has many complaints about their products, particularly
their use of antibiotics. In addition, on October 24 the United States introduced a system under which
some of the government functions concerning control over the safety of poultry were handed over to
private companies, while 90% of American poultry producers were included in the list of suppliers to
Russia under guarantees from the U.S. veterinary service.

Rosselkhoznador will hold negotiations with its American counterparts on Thursday. As a rule, this is the
last procedure before restrictions are imposed.

Dankvert said his agency's requirements for all suppliers of products subject to oversight are the same.

"Even now, opening markets to alternative, 'banned' countries, such as Latin American countries and
South Africa, without fail we conduct inspections of potential suppliers. Now, for example, two groups of
our inspectors are in Argentina to inspect enterprises for three weeks," Dankvert said.

Prior to the restrictions on food imports, Canada was one of the biggest suppliers of pork to Russia and
the United States was one of the biggest suppliers of poultry.

Page211of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.SIMFEROPOL. Nov 14 (Interfax) - The Customs Union countries - Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan - have
approved a ban on importation of unprocessed pork from Montenegro effective from November 18,
Russian agricultural watchdog Rosselkhoznadzor chief Sergei Dankvert said.

Russia had earlier banned import of finished meat products from Montenegro.

"We only allowed deliveries of half and quarter carcasses. After a recent meeting with our colleagues from
Belarus and Kazakhstan, we arrived at the conclusion that it had to be closed off entirely, because it
wasn't pork from Montenegro. Our Montenegrin colleagues filed documents and delivered [to Russia] pork
that at best was from Holland and at worst - Poland. At worst because there is African swine fever in
Poland," Dankvert said at a press conference in Simferopol on Friday.

The ban will take effect next Tuesday," he said.

MOSCOW. Nov 13 (Interfax) - Russia is not lifting its ban on shipments of frozen and chilled pork and pork
by-products from Belarus to Russia, Rosselkhoznadzor's official spokesman Alexei Alekseyenko told
Interfax.

Russia pulled the pork supply permits of a number of Belarusian meat-packing plants on October 31 in
connections with African swine fever. The ban was planned to last until November 11.

"But the possibility currently does not exist to renew the certificates since it is not clear where the
enterprises got the meat of the infected animals. Several variants exist, but there is no proof," he said.

In addition, the food safety process for shipments has not yet been worked out. "Our Belarusian
colleagues proposed several options. They will be discussed and the most effective ones will be included
in a general document that will contain all the terms for shipping pork products from Belarus,"
Alekseyenko said.

As reported, the signing of such a document was agreed upon at a meeting between the chiefs of the
veterinary services of Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan in Moscow on Tuesday.

Rosselkhoznadzor is also keeping its ban on shipments of finished meat products from the Bobryuysk,
Mogilev, Orsha and Minsk meat-packing plants, as well as from Belatmeat. African swine fever was
discovered in products from these enterprises in 11 Russian regions.
MOSCOW. Nov 19 (Interfax) - Cherkizovo Group, one of the leading producers of meat and meat
products in Russia, boosted its net profit to US GAAP to $228.1 million in 9M 2014 from $23.1 million in
the same period of last year.
In Q3 net profit grew to $112.8 million from $14.1 million in Q3 2013.
Consolidated revenue for the 9 M increased by 15% to 1.374 billion against $1.195 billion for the same
period in 2013. This figure in Q3 rose by 21% to $501.2 million in comparison with $415.4 million in
Q3 2013.
Adjusted earnings before taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA) grew 178% to $322.9 million
from $116.1 million in the same period of last year. In addition, this figure grew 214% in Q3 to $146.6
million from $46.8 million in Q3 2013.

EBITDA margin increased to 24% for the 9M from 10% and to 29% in Q3 from 11%.
Gross profit soared 83% to $440 million in January-September 2014 from $240.2 million in the same
period of last year. Gross profit in the third quarter was up 106% at $184.8 million versus $89.6 million in
Q3 2013.

Gross margin advanced to 32% for 9M 2014 from 20%, and to 37% for Q3 2014 from 22% in Q3 2013.
Net debt was $615.1 million as of September 30, 2014, while the effective cost of debt was 3.8% in 9M
2014 versus 2.7% in 9M 2013. The cash conversion ratio (CCR) was 111%.
"Despite the increasing volatility on both meat/grain and currency markets, Cherkizovo Group
demonstrated strong nine months and Q3 results. The Company continues to develop through the
combination of organic growth, investing into new projects and improving the efficiency of existing ones,
and strategic acquisitions, such as acquisition of Lisko-Broiler in Q1. Meat prices in the period were quite
strong, which made it possible to achieve high profitability in the poultry and pork segments, but at the
same time meat processing division was under pressure and its profitability decreased significantly. Now
pork prices returned to the level seen at the beginning of the year after reaching historical highs,"
Cherkizovo CEO Sergei Mikhailov is quoted in the statement as saying.

Page212of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."Looking forward, macro situation looks difficult in general. Sharp devaluation of the local currency that
influences direct and indirect costs, predicted consumption slowdown and growth of interest rates for
loans will be limitation factors for the future growth. However, we are confident that a well-balanced,
vertically integrated business model of our Company will allow us to cope with negative trends and
achieve maximum benefits out of positive trends," he said.
Cherkizovo Group, the leading Russian producer of pork and poultry meat, is noting the negative effect of
the devaluation of the ruble and sees risks of a fall in demand for meat products due to the quickening of
inflation and the reduction of the population's real income, but is planning to increase production in 2015.
"Cherkizovo management is confident that the Company has all the resources and capabilities to operate
on stagnating market as successfully as on growing one, and plans to increase production output in key
segments in 2015," the company said in a statement.

"In Q4 2014, we see a number of trends that may exert pressure on the country's meat market and
Cherkizovo's financial performance. Significant ruble devaluation caused a notable increase of costs
denominated in USD/EUR (for example, feed components) and also triggered grain prices growth, since
the increase of export prices in rubles leads to a price increase on domestic grain market," Cherkizovo
said.
"Growing inflation and predicted decrease in households' disposable income will most likely lead to the
decrease of meat consumption," the company said.

"In these challenging circumstances, capability to cut and control costs, as well as strong marketing and
distribution, will be key success factors," the statement said.
MOSCOW. Nov 19 (Interfax) - Pork production at Miratorg has exceed 1 million tonnes for the first time
since 2008.

Miratorg said in a press release that CJSC Korocha, a slaughter and meat processing plant, exceeded 1
million tonnes of production.
Korocha produces products of more than 300 brand names for retail and corporate clients. Of the total
volume of ready products more than 35% is accounted for by chilled meat in industrial packaging for sale
in small wholesale trading and retail chains.
The enterprise began operations in November of 2008 and subsequently increased production. At
present, it processes 3 million head of pigs a year.

Korocha CEO Anatoly Oleynik, who was cited in a statement, said that in October of this year the capacity
of pork processing increased by 9% to 9,100 head a day.

Miratorg is among the leading pork producers in Russia with a market share of 13.7% (according to the
estimate of the National Union of Pig Breeders). Investments in the development of domestic meat
production have exceeded 110 billion rubles.

The companies in the holding provide full-cycle production "from the field to the counter."

The holding includes grain companies, fodder plants, elevators, 27 major automated hog farms, meat
processing company CJSC Korocha, a transport company, five low-temperature automated distribution
centers and a distribution company with branches in major cities around the country.

Miratorg operates in 15 Russian regions and has more than 16,000 clients.
The brothers Viktor and Alexander Linnik own the company.
KOSTANAI. Nov 19 (Interfax) - Global Beef KZ LLP has commissioned a farm complex worth 4 billion
tenge (over $22 million at the current exchange rate) in Kostanai region, the Taraonovsky district
administration told Interfax.

The state-of-the-art cattle breeding farm and feed station is in the village of Smailovka.

The breeding farm has capacity for 3,000 head of cattle and the feed station can hold 5,000 head. All
planned deliveries of cattle to the farm have been received. The complex will produce 2,200 head of cattle
a year.

Global Beef KZ, established in 2013 and specializing in animal production, implemented the project using
its own resources. Global Beef Investors (North Dakota) delivered the animals and equipment.

Page213of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.OJSC KazAgroFinance took part in project financing the project, which is included in the industrialization
road map.

MOSCOW. Nov 12 (Interfax) - Mauritius is starting to ship fish to Russia, Russian agricultural watchdog
Rosselkhoznadzor said.
Permits were given to 21 enterprises that produce frozen, chilled, salted and canned fish, fish oil and
fishmeal.
In addition, one Mauritius-based company is now allowed to export feed, feed additives and fishmeal to
Russia.

As reported, Mauritius asked to be allowed to ship fish to Russia immediately after Russia banned imports
of food, including fish, from a number of countries. The main issues to organize trade between the two
nations have recently been resolved.

Rosselkhoznadzor chief Sergei Dankvert and Mauritius' Ambassador to Russia Indira Sidaya are set to
meet in Moscow on Thursday to discuss future cooperation.

MOSCOW. Nov 13 (Interfax) - Russia's consumer rights watchdog Rospotrebnadzor has imposed a ban
on another group of Ukrainian food exports - cheese-like products.
"Starting from November 13, 2014, Rospotrebnadzor suspends the import of cheese-like products (codes
1516 and 1517 in Russia's Nomenclature of Goods subject to Foreign Trade) manufactured in Ukraine to
the territory of the Russian Federation. Information to that effect has been forwarded to the Federal
Customs Service and Rospotrebnadzor's branches in the regions of the Russian Federation," the
watchdog said in a press release.

Examinations of sandwich spread, its intermediate product and margarine-based solid products (codes
1516 and 1517 in Russia's Nomenclature of Goods subject to Foreign Trade) delivered to the Russian
market from Ukraine uncovered multiple violations of Russia's consumer rights laws and safety
requirements, Rospotrebnadzor said.

Rospotrebnadzor and Russia's agricultural sector watchdog Rosselkhoznadzor earlier banned almost all
food imports from Ukraine, including dairy products, meat, confectionary products and alcohol.

KRASNOGORSK. Nov 17 (Interfax) - Finland's Valio is considering the possibility of constructing a new
plant in the Moscow region, deputy minister of the regional government Denis Butsayev said at the First
International Agricultural Dairy Forum in Krasnogorsk.

"Valio is planning an opening. Valio and a number of other international companies discussed some
conditions of several regions, and in that regard, the Moscow region is the priority for them from the point
of view of proximity to sales markets, Butsayev said.

He said that besides Valio, the Moscow region authorities "are speaking with all interested parties that
come to the territory of the region."

He said the Moscow region is expecting the arrival of several companies from New Zealand.
Finland's Valio, founded in 1905, is owned by 18 dairy cooperatives and about 7,800 farmers. The
company operates 15 plants in Finland, two in Estonia and one in Russia. Turnover in 2013 exceeded 2
billion euro.
LLC Valio, the Russian division of the company, was established in 1994 in St. Petersburg. It imports and
promotes Valio products on the Russian market and produces certain brand-name products. The
company has a plant in Moscow region with a logistics and distribution center, warehouse and a
production line for Viola cheese spread and sliced cheese.

MOSCOW. Nov 12 (Interfax) - The pending visit of Director General of the UN Food and Agriculture
Organization (FAO) Jose Graziano da Silva to Moscow and plans of opening a FAO liaison office in
Moscow were in the center of attention of a meeting of Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Gennady Gatilov
and the FAO Director General.

"Topical aspects of cooperation between Russia and FAO were discussed with an emphasis on further
intensification of bilateral cooperation, including the planned opening of a FAO liaison office in Moscow
and the coming visit of Jose Graziano da Silva to Russia in 2015," a Wednesday statement of the Russian
Foreign Ministry on the outcome of the Tuesday meeting says.

Page214of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."The sides stressed the importance of continuing the growing contribution of Russian industry experts in
the work of the organization," the report says.

Gatilov also confirmed Russia's intentions to continue active involvement in FAO efforts in the sphere of
food supplies, the report says.
KYIV. Nov 14 (Interfax) - The Lauffer Group has said that the accusations of Crimean authorities that the
group is unable to provide residents of the peninsula with high-quality products in the required volume are
groundless.

"Any information on the possible bankruptcy of the said enterprises and the necessity in their
nationalization is groundless," the company said.

Lauffer said that Krymkhlib and Simferopol Grain Production Center have enough resources to fully
ensure stable operation of production facilities.

"Financial reserves are enough to pay wages to employees and to invest in the modernization of
production facilities. There are no unbiased preconditions for bankruptcy," the company said.

Since early 2014, investment in production of enterprises operating on the peninsula came to around RUR
35 million, and it is planned to invest another RUR 15 million by the end of this year.

"Taking into account a large social importance of Krymkhlib and Simferopol grain production center and
the increased interest to the operation of the enterprises both from authorities and the public, the
companies initiate the introduction of a public discussion to protect the development plan for 2015-2017 at
a meeting of the investment committee," the company said.

Earlier Russian mass media, referring to the Crimean agriculture minister, reported that the government of
Crimea is preparing a solution on the mandatory buyout of the region's largest bread producer, Krymkhlib.
Lauffer is one of the largest Ukrainian business groups in the field of processing agricultural products and
food production.

MOSCOW. Nov 18 (Interfax) - Russia may ban shipments of crops from Albania and Macedonia.

"Most likely, we will introduce a ban on shipments of crops in connection with violations in the system of
their certification," Rosselkhoznadzor chief Sergei Dankvert told Interfax.

He said that incidents of falsifying certificates were uncovered as well as the import of products with blank
documents.

"The issue for us is clear - under the guise of these countries' products are things that should not be
imported into Russia," he said. "We have counterfeit certificates, we 'closed' supplies for that reason
earlier, and we will act in the same fashion now."

The Rosselkhoznadzor chief said that if a country-supplier wants to work normally, it should create
protective forms of certificates, introduce a system of electronic confirmation of the shipment of goods,
and so on.

The watchdog said a meeting took place on Tuesday between Rosselkhoznadzor Deputy Chief Alexey
Saurin and the Charge d'affaires at Embassy of the Republic of Macedonia in Moscow, Jani Bogoevski.

Russia told the Macedonian service for plant protection and quarantine that it doubted the authenticity of
the phytosanitary certificates that accompanies the consignments of goods. Russia requested that the
service present the previously requested materials within a week on the verification system of quarantined
goods being exported, as well as confirmations that a number of certificates are authentic.

"If the information presented is insufficient or inadequate, Rosselkhoznadzor is not ruling out the likelihood
of imposing restrictions on shipments of Macedonian plant products to the Russian market," the statement
says.
TOMSK. Nov 18 (Interfax) - Tomsk-based Company LLC Artlife and South Korean company Haesong
Kns., are jointly supplying Siberian Chaga to the U.S. market, Artlife Director Alexander Avstrievskikh, told
Interfax.

"We have starting selling Chaga in Chicago and Los Angeles, going through Korea. Undoubtedly, the U.S.
market is negative about Russian companies, so we have [included] the Seoul company," he said.

Page215of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Siberian Chaga is sold under the Artlife Korea Inc., brand. The first offices of the company opened in
Chicago and Los Angeles this month.
The company is counting on these exports due to the exoticness of Chaga abroad.

"Going to America with, let's say, vitamin C, is useless. Because America has its own biotechnology
industry and it is a hundred times bigger than Russia's. But it does not have Chaga," he said.
Products based on Chaga with the Artlife Korea Inc. brand are also to be supplied to the Southeast Asia
market.

LLC Artlife reported earlier that it would deliver 20 tonnes of Chaga to the retailer E-Mart, a Samsung
subsidiary, in South Korea, before the end of the year. Supplies are to be boosted to 100 tonnes in 2015.

Chaga is a medicinal mushroom that grows on trees, especially on birch trees. It is used to treat several
illnesses, including respiratory and cardiovascular problems. Chaga is also used in cancer treatments and
for stomach diseases.

LLC Artlife specializes in producing food additives, foods and cosmetics. Production is full cycle from the
processing of vegetable and mineral resources to packaging finished products.

OMSK. Nov 13 (Interfax) - The Directorate of Russian agricultural watchdog Rosselkhoznadzor for Omsk
region stopped several large consignments of apples, pears and Beijing cabbages from Poland at the time
of their transportation to Russia from Kazakhstan, Rosselkhoznadzor said.

The two consignments of fruit and vegetables totaling 39.5 tonnes were stopped at Isilkul border check
point in Omsk region; there was no fumigation certificate on them, while an inspection revealed labels
pointing to their Polish origin, it said.

On Thursday, another batch containing 21 tonnes of apples from Kazakhstan was stopped. Markings on
boxes were either removed or blacked out but labels were found in a cargo section holding apples, which
pointed to their Polish origin, according to the statement.

The consignments were stopped with violators brought to administrative responsibility.

TBILISI. Nov 11 (Interfax) - Georgia, where the citrus fruit harvest continues, has already shipped the first
lots to Russia, Zurab Lipartiya, the head of phyto-sanitary supervision at the Georgia Agriculture Ministry's
National Food Agency, told Interfax on Sunday.

"Several small lots of mandarin oranges have already been supplied to Russia via the Verkhny Lars
customs checkpoint," Lipartiya said.

Citrus exports to Russia and other markets are increasing as the harvest enters the active stage, Lipartiya
said.

All of the citrus being exported is closely supervised, from the growing phase to the loading phase, and
duly certified by the exporter, he said.

Georgia's citrus harvest will be smaller this year than last due to the weather, but will be of higher quality,
he said. In Adjara, which accounts for about 80% of Georgia's harvest, up to 80,000 tonnes will be
harvested, 6% less than in 2013.

Georgia's citrus fruit harvest totaled 110,400 tonnes in 2013, 43.4% more than in 2012, including 84,600
tonnes in Adjara, 63% more.

Georgia's citrus exports increased 120% to 37,900 tonnes last year, mainly because the Russian market
opened up after being closed for seven years. Exports to Russia totaled 12,100 tonnes of mandarins,
31.9% of all citrus exports.

MOSCOW. Nov 14 (Interfax) - The Russian Agriculture Ministry may reduce salt supplies from Ukraine,
but it is not forecasting any shortages.

"One of the main suppliers of salt to Russia is located in Ukraine, there are fears that supplies will be
complicated, despite the fact that there are no restrictions on the import of salt into Russia," Russian
Deputy Agriculture Minister Andrei Volkov told journalists on Friday in Moscow.

Nevertheless, he said, there will be no salt shortage, because there is domestic production in the country
and a large part of the salt supplied from Ukraine because supplies from there were more profitable.

Page216of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."The flows are being reviewed today, I am certain that the balance will be normal," he said.

Speaking on Friday at a food forum, Volkov said that for Russia to achieve food security for salt, the share
of domestic production must be no less than 80%. At present the share is lower, but he did not name a
figure.
NOVOSIBIRSK. Nov 13 (Interfax) - LLC Mondelez Rus, which belongs to Mondelez Internationalgroup
(formerly Kraft Foods), has begun the construction of a factory to produce chocolate and cookies at a cost
of $110 million in the Novosibirsk region, the company said.

"Mondelez Rus has received construction permits and began work on the construction of a multi-category
factory outside of Novosibirsk," the company said a statement.
The construction is being carried on the territory of the Industrial and Logistics Park. The launch of the
operations at the factory is marked for Q3 2015.

The enterprise will reach full design capacity - up to 50,000 tonnes of products a year - no later than 2020.
At the factory 180 jobs will be created and company brands such as Alpen Gold, Milka, Jubileynoe,
Medvezhonok Barni and TUC will be produced.

Mondelez Rus has been working in Russia for 19 years and owns five plants in the country, in Vladimir,
Leningrad and Novgorod regions. The company has invested $1 billion in Russia.
Mondelez International's turnover in 2013 was $35 billion.
The Industrial and Logistics Park covers 2,000 hectares and is located 12 kilometers from Novosibirsk
and 6 kilometers from Tolmachevo International Airport (MOEX: ATLM).

KYIV. Nov 17 (Interfax) - Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko has announced that a contract to sell the
Roshen confectionery corporation may be signed soon.
"We're in talks on the sale [of Roshen] with a large investment bank. I'm sure we'll be able to sign
contracts in the near future," Poroshenko said in an interview with Germany's Bild published on Monday.

As was reported, Poroshenko earlier hired Rothschild in a consortium with Ukrainian-based ICU to
arrange the sale of his assets, as was pledged during his presidential election campaign.

Forbes reported earlier, citing two sources familiar with progress in the deal, that the main contender to
purchase Roshen's Russian assets is the KDV Group holding, which is interested in Roshen's recently
modernized production facility in Lipetsk and 32,000 square meter logistics center.
Roshen's Lipetsk Confectionery Plant boosted revenue 23% to 2.16 billion rubles in 2013. Gross profit
increased 4.8% to 227.2 million rubles and the gross profit margin was 10.5%. Operating profit increased
3.7% to 21.6.7 million rubles and net profit rose 5.7% to 177.9 million rubles.

Roshen's assets in Russia command considerable interest despite it relatively small size compared with
the overall Russian market, estimated to total 700 billion rubles, Finnam Management's Maxim Klyagin
said. Excluding flour-based confectionery, the plant's market share is less than 1%. "However, this market
is highly consolidated and interest in the asset is high," Klyagin told Interfax.

High revenue growth rates are also a selling point, he said. Revenue grew 14% a year on average in the
last four years and Lipetsk Confectionery Plant boosted revenue 23% in 2013. Rising costs weight to
some extent on margins, but it is not critical given current growth rates, he said.
Lipetsk Confectionery Plant might have a market value of 2 billion-2.5 billion rubles based on the 2013
indicators. But the company has faced risks in 2014 stemming from geopolitics and a halt in production,
Klyagin said.

Roshen Corporation includes four confectionery factories in Ukraine, one in Lithuania and one in Russia.
Candy Industry's Top 100 ranks Roshen as the 20th biggest confectionary concern in the world with
revenue of $1.032 billion a year.

KOSTONAI. Nov 14 (Interfax) - Kostanai-based Bayan Sulu Confectionery Factory has put into operation
a production line for panned sweets worth 558 million tenge, the company said.

The design capacity of the new line is 1,800 tonnes of panned sweets a year.

"The line is scheduled to reach the design capacity 2017. However, it also depends on the market
conditions," the company said.

Page217of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."It's an absolutely a new addition to our selection of confectionary products. We will produce sweets with a
hard sugar coating and a variety of panned nuts," the company said.

The Bayan Sulu confectionery was built in 1974.

SIMFEROPOL. Nov 17 (Interfax) - Crimea's Economics Ministry has issued a first Russian national
license to trade in alcoholic beverages, the ministry said.
Crimean Vodka Company, the republic's biggest distiller, received the license.

All alcohol retail licenses and permits currently in use were issued when Crimea was still part of Ukraine
and are valid as originally prescribed.

MOSCOW. Nov 13 (Interfax) - Italian alcohol producer Gruppo Campari saw sales in Russia fall 19.9%
year-on-year in January-September 2014 to 29.7 million euro, according to company materials.
The company's Russian sales were affected by exchange rate difference, which led to a 12.2% drop in
revenue, as well as by decreased sales volume by 7.7%.

Sales in the third quarter were also down amid complicated and volatile conditions on the market and
compared with the high performance demonstrated last year, the company said. In addition, growth in the
sparkling wine segment - the brands Cinzano, Mondoro and Riccadonna - was neutralized by a drop in
the vermouth segment.
Gruppo Campari's overall revenue in the 9M grew 0.8% to 1.06 billion euro, despite the negative effect of
exchange rate differences. Sales on the Italian market grew 7.8% to 287.9 million euro.
In other countries of Europe, where the company also placed Russia, sales grew 3% to 241.2 million
euro.

ALMATY. Nov 19 (Interfax) - No official document has been issued by the Committee on Consumer
Protection of the Kazakhstan's Ministry of National Economy to ban the sale of certain types of alcohol
products from the Russian Federation, Raimbek Group commercial director Sergei Poluhin said.

"No official documents from the Ministry of National Economy have been issued yet. There is only a
statement. We are waiting for the details to study the situation. In fact, it sounds very peculiar, since all
products imported to Kazakhstan from the leader of the Russian market are certified and tested in an
accredited lab. First of all, we pay all excise taxes and then verify the authenticity of goods, and only after
that products are cleared for sale," Poluhin told journalists on Wednesday in Almaty.
Raimbek Group is the exclusive distributor of Russian vodka brands: Talca and Green Mark Rye that fell
under the ban.

According to Poluhin, the state authorities most likely bumped into a random batch of counterfeit goods
and drew the conclusion that it is not up to the technical regulations of the Customs Union.

However, "there is no direct competition with Kazakhstan's alcohol market. All imported alcohol
beverages, including those from Russia, are much more expensive than locally produced brands. In terms
of the amount of alcohol excise taxes and fees paid by importers, it is the size of all revenues generated
by local alcohol industry," said Poluhin.

The Committee for Consumer Right Protection of Kazakhstan's Ministry of National Economy revealed
that some alcohol beverages produced in Russia did not comply with food safety requirements. So, the
sale of the Russian vodka brands, Talka, Empire, Wild Goose, Green Mark Rye, Russian Quality
Guarantor, Ruble, Embassy is banned in Kazakhstan.
In addition, the sale of the beers, Miller Genuine Draft, Hoegaarden White, Grolsch Premium Lager,
Brahma, Pilsner Urquell, Lada (two types), Zhigulevskoye (original), Bad, Lowenbrau Original, are also
banned.
Earlier, Kazakhstan's Chief Medical Officer signed a decree banning from January 1, 2015 the sale of
imported alcohol beverages that are not in line with the technical regulations of the Customs Union and
the national legislation.
A ban on the sale of several alcoholic beverages from Russia in Kazakhstan "has private nature" and will
not affect economic cooperation between the two countries, Head of Russia's State Duma Committee for
the CIS Affairs, Eurasian Integration and Relations with Compatriots Leonid Slutsky has said.

Page218of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.It's quite possible under a multi-criteria verification system and one of these criteria is missing and "this is
only but a detail", which will soon be rectified; these things may emerge in the future, but will not affect
cooperation within the Customs Union and the Eurasian Economic Union, Slutsky told reporters on
Tuesday.

The Russian MP said this is his understanding because he did not communicate with Kazakhstan's
agricultural watchdog Selkhoznadzor. In any case, the sanctions apply to limited batches of beverages;
this is "quite acceptable roughness", according to Slutsky.

As Slutsky noted Kazakhstan's relevant departments may really have a claim on the quality of these
Russian alcohol beverages, although there is no doubt about their quality in Russia itself.

On Tuesday the Committee for Consumer Right Protection of Kazakhstan's Ministry of National Economy
revealed that some alcohol beverages produced in Russia does not comply with food safety requirements.
So, the sale of the Russian vodka brands, Talka, Empire, Wild Goose, Green Mark Rye, Russian Quality
Guarantor, Ruble, Embassy is banned in Kazakhstan, according to the press office of the Committee for
Consumer Right Protection.
In addition, the sale of the beers, Miller Genuine Draft, Hoegaarden White, Grolsch Premium Lager,
Brahma, Pilsner Urguell, Lada (two types), Zhigulevskoye (original), Bad, Lowenbrau Original, are also
banned.
TBILISI. Nov 11 (Interfax) - Georgia exported 49.353 million bottles of wine (0.75 liter bottles) in
January-October 2014, 49% more than in the same period of 2013, the Georgian Agriculture Ministry's
National Wine Agency said.
Russia was the leading importer, receiving 31.736 million bottles or 64% of the total. The other top five
importers were Ukraine, Kazakhstan, Poland and Belarus.
Revenue from wine exports to 42 countries amounted to $157.3 million, up 49% compared with
January-October 2013.
Georgia also exported 10.507 million bottles of brandy (0.5 liters) to 14 countries, earning about $33.8
million, which was 46% more year-on-year.
Ukraine imported 5.493 million bottles of Georgian brandy and Russia imported 4.402 million bottles.
KOSTANAI. Nov 18 (Interfax) - Arasan Firm LLP has commenced an 8 million euro project for
construction of a soft drink bottling plant in Kostanai, the administrative center of the Kostanai region.

"The production equipment for the plant will be supplied from Germany and Austria. Initially, the plant will
produce 52 liters of bottled soft drinks a year," Dmitry Yerastov, the development director at Arasan Firm
LLP, told Interfax.

The plant will be put into operation in May 2015.
Arasan Firm also owns a beer and soft-drink bottling plant in Rudny, a town in the Kostanai Region, and a
brewery in Kostanai.

MOSCOW. Nov 17 (Interfax) - Lenta, a major Russian food retailer, does not expect the slowdown in the
Russian economy to have a major impact on its business.

"At this stage we see the overall macroeconomic situation as stable. The negligible decline in consumer
demand will not have a major impact on the company's business," Lenta said in its quarterly report.

The store format that Lenta is developing combines the characteristics of traditional hypermarkets, cash &
carry stores and discounters, and is more resilient in the face of negative changes on the market, the
company believes.

"Assessing the current macroeconomic situation in Russia as a whole and in most of its regions, it is
necessary to note that we are seeing a certain slowdown of Russian economic growth related to both the
deterioration of the geopolitical situation due to the events in Ukraine and the drop in prices for oil, a
traditional Russian export that accounts for a significant portion of the country's GDP," Lenta said.
The company also said that the restrictions on food imports from certain countries that Russia imposed in
August has not had a significant impact on its business, but has led to "negligible" growth of prices for
certain groups of goods due to changes in logistics as supplies switched to other countries. Direct imports,
as of the end of September, amounted to 4.01% of the total value of goods purchased by the retailer.

Page219of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.MOSCOW. Nov 13 (Interfax) - OJSC Dixy Group's revenue grew by 29.5% year-on-year in October 2014
to 19.4 billion rubles, the company said in a statement.

In comparison with September's revenue growth (28.3%), revenue growth in October quickened.
For January-October, Dixy's revenue grew by 25.8% to 182.9 billion rubles.
"Retail revenue of DIXY neighborhood stores increased to 15.5 billion rubles by ($381.0 million) by
33.7% in rubles (5.2% in dollars) in October 2014 compared to October 2013. For the 10M, it increased by
30.1% to 145.3 billion rubles" the statement said.
The revenue of Victoria supermarkets increased by 20.1% in October to 2.05 billion rubles and for the
10M - by 18.4% to 19.4 billion rubles. The retail revenue of neighborhood stores belonging to the Victoria
Division increased by 6.7% in October and by 1.5% in the 10M to 3.9 billion rubles.
"Retail revenue of Megamart Division increased to 1.4 billion rubles ($34.4 million) by 10.4% in rubles
(decreased by 13.2% in dollars) year-on-year in October 2014," the company said. In the 10M, revenue
increased by 6.4% to 13.6 billion rubles.
"As of October 31, 2014, the Group increased its selling space by 22% year-on-year to 714,026 square
meters," the company said. This included the selling space of Dixy's chain of Dixy-brand neighborhood
stores which rose by 25% to 571,900 square meters.

In October the retailer opened 26 stores, including 24 Dixy neighborhood stores. One neighborhood store
was closed. In comparison with October of last year, when the company opened 25 new stores, the rate
of organic growth slowed.
For the 10M, the company opened 320 new stores, including 311 Dixy neighborhood stores and 20
stores were closed.

Dixy manages Dixy convenience stores and the Minimart and Megamart compact hypermarkets. In June
2011, Dixy purchased the Victoria Group, which includes the Victoria supermarkets, the Kvartal,
Deshevo and Semeynaya Kopilka discount stores, and the Cash cash & carry store.
At the end of October, the company had 2,093 stores, including 1,966 Dixy neighborhood stores and 46
Victoria supermarkets.

Dixy is expecting revenue growth of 20%-25% in 2014.
The company's revenue growth for the 10M (25.8%) was higher than the upper limit of the current
forecast.

"We would have liked [growth to be higher], but we are not ready for now to talk [about raising the
forecast] [...] Dixy is looking to the future with confidence, we are very optimistic," Dixy's president, Ilya
Yakubson told journalists.

He said the drivers of the acceleration in the growth of sales were the increase of quality and the attractive
prices. "I would not say that a driver of growth was inflation […] Inflation helps, but not very much," he
said.

According to Rosstat, food inflation in October was 1.2% against 1.1% in October of last year.

The largest Russian retailer by sales volume and the number of stores, Magnit, also accelerated revenue
growth in October in comparison with September to 36.14% against 34.37%. The remaining public
companies of the sector did not disclose monthly sales data.
MOSCOW. Nov 19 (Interfax) - Standard & Poor's has affirmed its long-term "B+" rating on X5 Retail
Group and improved the outlook to positive from stable, the agency said in a press release.
The agency did the same for X5 Retail Group subsidiary X5 Finance, whose rating is currently "B+."
"The rating actions reflect the group's improved operating performance and credit metrics over the past
few quarters following a management shake-up in 2013. We think that the group should be able to
sustain similar or stronger operating performance and credit measures over the next few quarters, despite
ongoing difficult economic conditions in Russia, which could lead to a higher rating over the next 12
months. We also note a more disciplined financial policy over the past four years, especially in terms of
acquisitions, which, if continued, should support an upgrade," Standard & Poor's said.

Page220of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."We continue to assess X5's business risk profile as 'fair,' reflecting our view of the company's exposure
to emerging-market risks, such as currency volatility, persistent cost inflation, and political uncertainty. The
recent one-year ban on food imports to Russia has put additional pressure on the industry and may have
a bigger impact on X5's operating performance if extended for a longer period. Still, we don't expect the
ban to significantly affect our ratings on food retailers in the short term," the press release says.

"We continue to assess X5's financial risk profile as "aggressive." In our view, high capital expenditures on
the refurbishment of existing stores and opening new ones in 2014-2015 would weigh on X5's cash flows,
and we do not expect the company to significantly deleverage over the next one to two years," the
agency said.

MOSCOW. Nov 18 (Interfax) - The first McDonald's restaurant in Russia located on Pushkin Square in
central Moscow will be reopened on Wednesday, November 19 upon the expiration of a 90-day
suspension as an administrative punishment imposed on it by a court, McDonald's Russia spokesperson
Svetlana Polyakova told Interfax on Tuesday.

"The restaurant on Pushkin Square will open at about noon tomorrow," Polyakova said.

The other two McDonald's restaurants closed in Moscow will be reopened later, she said.

"As for the restaurant on Manezhnaya Square, we have started its modernization and full refurbishment,
including the restaurant's decor. The work there will continue until the end of January. The McDonald's on
Alekseyevskaya is undergoing planned re-equipment, and it will reopen" by the end of November, she
said.
Lawyer Maxim Titarenko representing the company's interests in courts told Interfax the administrative
sanctions imposed on the company by district courts expire on November 18.

"The administrative cases have ended, the proceedings on them have been finished, and the punishment
served. I am not aware of any other charges by [the consumer protection watchdog] Rospotrebnadzor," he
said.
Rospotrebnadzor had ordered the suspension of operations at three McDonald's restaurants in Moscow
on August 20, including the first Russian restaurant in the chain, which opened on Pushkin Square in
1990. Based on violations uncovered during inspections, Rospotrebnadzor specialists started
administrative offence proceedings.
Moscow's Tverskoi District Court ruled on August 27 to suspend the operations of McDonald's
restaurants on Pushkin Square and on Manezhnaya Square. The Ostankinsky District Court also ruled to
suspend the operations of a McDonald's restaurant on Prospekt Mira Avenue near the Alekseyevskaya
metro station for 90 days.

Polyakova had told Interfax in early September that nearly every other McDonald's restaurant in Russia
had undergone inspections.

There are more than 430 McDonald's restaurants in Russia, including over 100 in Moscow. Russia's
oldest McDonald's near Pushkin Square was among the chain's ten largest restaurants in Europe by
turnover in 2013.

ASTANA. Nov 13 (Interfax) - The first McDonald's restaurant in Kazakhstan will open in the second half of
2015, the company said in a statement on Thursday.
The Kazakh businessman and CEO of Almaly Asset Management Company Kairat Boranbayev will be
company's local developmental licensee. He is currently the company's franchisee in Belarus.

Kazakhstan will become McDonald's 121st global market.

"Kazakhstan offers much development and growth potential, and our agreement with Kairat will enable us
to continue to build our brand. We're committed to driving our business by growing same store sales,
opening new restaurants in existing markets and looking at opportunities to enter new markets with
development potential," Doug Goare, the president of McDonald's Europe, is quoted in the statement as
saying.

McDonald's is the world's leading global food service retailer with more than 35,000 locations serving
approximately 70 million customers in more than 100 countries each day.

ASTANA. Nov 19 (Interfax) - The Baiterek National Managing Holding and its subsidiaries: Kazakhstan
Investment Fund (IFC) and Development Bank of Kazakhstan (DBK), together with the South Kazakhstan
authorities relaunched textile factories in Shymkent that have been standing idle for the past few years.

Page221of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.In 2012 two textile factories Utex and Melange, part of Textiles.kz group, were put on the post-crisis
recovery program until 2020. IFC, who bought their debt from DBK, developed a plan for rehabilitation of
textile enterprises. Capital Logistics LPP, a 100% subsidiary of IFC, has been named as a supervisor of all
production stages. DBK provided a credit facility to Capital Logistics LLP to finalize the construction of the
production line of Utex.kz and purchase of raw cotton for Melange, Utex and Utex kz.

After the launch of Melange and Utex production facilities, the total capacity will reach 17,800 tonnes of
yarn and 8.4 million linear meters of fabrics per year. Utex.kz is scheduled for completion and
commissioning in 2016.
A total of 70% of bed linen, terry fabrics, combed yarn will be exported to Europe and China.
National railway company Kazakhstan Temir Zholy signed a long-term contract for the purchase of linen
and workwear produced by Textiles.kz.

The global financial and economic crisis of 2008-2009 and the sharp fluctuations in raw cotton price in the
world market led to companies' default on their DBK loans.

MOSCOW. Nov 18 (Interfax) - Russian President Vladimir Putin has said that had the Russian authorities
not been confident of the potential of the domestic agricultural industry, they would have never introduced
restrictions on agricultural imports.

"We are grown-ups and understand what is going on. Essentially, we took advantage of the incorrect
behavior of our partners, especially, those countries which have successfully embraced the Russian
agricultural market, but which, I think, exposed themselves by introducing the well-known sanctions
against us," Putin said at the Action Forum organized by All-Russia People's Front.

"This gave us a moral and legal right to introduce retaliatory measures, but precisely in the industry which
has been demonstrating very good growth rates in recent years," the Russian president stressed.

"It became clear that our agriculture sector is capable of dealing with practically all the issues on its own.
Had we not felt, had I not felt that our agriculture is capable of dealing with those issues, we would have
never introduced any retaliatory sanctions. It would have cost us more, so why create problems," Putin
said.

KRASNOGORSK, Moscow region. Nov 17 (Interfax) - Deputy Prime Minister Arkady Dvorkovich is "almost
certain" that additional state support will be provided to the agricultural sector in coming years.

"Will there be success in increasing state support next year and in subsequent years? I am almost certain
there will be, but I won't guarantee it. That will depend on the situation in the country," Dvorkovich said at
the International Agricultural Dairy Forum in Krasnogorsk on Monday.
The federal budget allocates an additional 25 billion rubles to the sector this year, including
recapitalization for Russian Agricultural Bank (RusAg). "This will make it possible to repay debt under
investment loans. This is very important for dairy cattle farming, since a lot of those loans went to this
segment," Dvorkovich said.
The additional support will increase by 20 billion rubles next year, of which 20%-25% will go to the dairy
industry. "That will make it possible to subsidize new projects and avoid cutting back support volumes
under existing mechanisms, including per-liter subsidies for milk production, and provide subsidies for
livestock breeding," he said.

Development of the logistical system will also help to raise efficiency in the sector.
Addressing various forms of dairy farming, particularly competition between farmers and major
enterprises, Dvorkovich said "the ability to combine these two forms, balancing their interests, must be
found."

Revised development program

The Russian government will approve a revised version of the state program for development of the
agricultural sector in 2013-2020 in the next few weeks, Dvorkovich told journalists.

The updated program takes into account current realities on the nation's food products market.

"In the next few weeks, the government will approve the new version of the state program taking into
account new mechanisms of state support, notably in the dairy sector, and these mechanisms will begin
operating," Dvorkovich said.

Page222of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Support for the dairy sector will not be reduced. The mechanisms will be adjusted with due consideration
for the situation.

"Support volumes will not be cut. To the contrary, they will increase, by a little, because the budget
constraints are severe," he said. "There will be further improvement to the extent the situation in the
country stabilizes."
The mechanisms of support in the dairy industry including interest rate subsidies for investment loans with
maturities up to 15 years, per-liter subsidies for milk, and a host of new mechanisms, notably project
financing and state guarantees on loans to the dairy industry. Dvorkovich predicted that those
mechanisms would start operating in the next few months.

The Agriculture Ministry has already submitted the new version of the state program to the government. It
estimates that the agricultural sector will require nearly 580 billion rubles in supplementary financing to
2020.

State credit guarantees

Russian agriculture will receive no less than 20% of the total funds that are being used as state credit
guarantees.

"We agreed, including with the deputies, that no less than 20% of total funds of the budget, put towards
state credit guarantees, will be allocated to agriculture," Dvorkovich said.
He said this was several billions of rubles.
Dvorkovich said that such a form of support was stipulated in the new edition of the dairy subprogram,
and that it would be used in combination with other forms of support. This particularly concerns a
mechanism of project financing. "Part of the funds will go to agriculture and projects in the dairy sector will
be the priority," the deputy prime minister said, noting that the development of greenhouses was also
among the priority areas.

He said the new edition of the subprogram also provides a mechanism for the reimbursement of a part of
the expenses with the implementation of investment projects. "It will earn, I hope, next year," Dvorkovich
said. He also said that all remaining mechanisms of support for the dairy industry were also being kept.

Dvorkovich said that this year the state will pay back all its debts on investment loans. "The selection of
new loans will be more thorough, depending on how efficiently the technologies and methods are used by
those who announce these projects," he said.

The deputy prime minister said that despite the difficult budget situation, the level of state support for
farms as a whole is being maintained, and in some sectors it has been increased. But some sectors,
including the dairy sector, require more. "For now the budget limitations are not allowing this to be done,
measures of support must be found and with limited resources for achieving greater results," he said.
"I am hoping that with account of the fact that the level of attention paid to the dairy industry is not being
lowered, we will be able to make a step forward already next year," the deputy prime minister said.

MOSCOW. Nov 14 (Interfax) - The ban on food and agricultural imports from a number of countries has
not had a serious impact on Russia's food balance, Deputy Agriculture Minister Andrei Volkov said at a
forum on Russia's food security in Moscow on Friday.

"When we say that something happened that can seriously affect the food balance, this is not quite true,"
Volkov said, remarking that the import restrictions have only affected the cheese market. The share of
restricted imports in cheese consumption is estimated at 30%.

He said that the share of banned imports in Russian meat consumption amounts to 8.2%, including 2.5%
for beef, 12% for pork and 8% for poultry. The figures are 14.9% for fish, 10.2% for milk and dairy
products and 5.8% for vegetables.

The Agriculture Ministry reckons that the share of countries subject to the import ban in total imports
amounts to 47.2% for meat, including 9% for beef, 72.7% for pork and 84.8% for poultry; 52.3% for fish
and seafood; 38.5% for dairy products, including 60% for cheese; and 29.6% for vegetables.

Volkov said that in light of the restrictions on food imports the Agriculture Ministry has revised the state
agriculture development program, including a number of sub-programs aimed at the development of dairy
farming, support for breeding, creation of wholesale and distribution centers and development of
greenhouse vegetable farming. In addition, provisions have been made to improve the financial and credit
system of the agribusiness sector.

Page223of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.He said that the implementation of existing and new measures will make it possible to increase meat
production to 10 million tonnes by 2020 and thus reduce imports by 67%. Milk production could increase
to 35.5 million tonnes and vegetable production could grow to 16.5 million tonnes, reducing imports by
respectively 29.9% and 70.3%. The ministry expects to completely eliminate Russia's dependence on
potato imports by 2020 by increasing domestic production to 32 million tonnes.
However, this will be possible given additional funding of 568.2 billion rubles in 2015-2020, including 20
billion rubles in 2020, Volkov added.

The updated draft of the state program has been submitted to the government, he said.

MINSK. Nov 12 (Interfax) - The Belarusian Ministry of Agriculture and Food estimates that the country's
agribusiness lost $160 million in August-October due to the depreciation of the Russian ruble.

"The Russian ruble is falling in value, which is not very good for us. Our losses total somewhere around
8.6% [of calculated profit], or $160 million for August, September and October," Deputy Agriculture and
Food Minister Vasily Sedin said at a press conference in Minsk on Wednesday.

He added that the Agriculture and Food Ministry was now taking certain steps to minimize losses. In
particular, the country is reorienting itself towards exports of products with a higher return on sales and
that are in demand.

"We have started actively selling cheeses. In October, we boosted sales 150% compared to the same
period of 2013," Sedin said.

He added that Belarus might also up export prices on certain types of agriculture products.

MOSCOW. Nov 17 (Interfax) - Russia and Turkmenistan intend to expand cooperation in agriculture,
including in the area of Turkmen agricultural exports to Russia, Deputy Prime Minister Arkady Dvorkovich
said after a meeting on Saturday of the Russian-Turkmen intergovernmental commission for trade and
economic cooperation.

"There is great and so far unrealized potential in the area of agriculture. This is the main agreement at this
meeting, both in terms of trade and investment, and concerning supplies of equipment and training of
specialists. We plan to dramatically expand the scale of cooperation. Our agencies have received the
necessary signals," Dvorkovich told reporters.

He said this refers to shipments of food from Turkmenistan to Russia and shipments of Russian farm
machinery to Turkmenistan.

The issue of training Turkmen specialists in the area of agriculture in Russia was also considered,
Dvorkovich said.

MOSCOW. Nov 18 (Interfax) - Russian Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Rogozin has expressed regret that
Moscow was compelled to ban agricultural produce imports from Moldova, noting that it was a forced
measure.

"Regrettably, problems have arisen over Moldovan farming produce supplies. In conditions of an open
border with the European Union we have not managed to identify whether this produce had arrived from
Moldova, or from some other country," Rogozin told leader of the Moldovan Party of Socialists Igor Dodon
in Moscow on Tuesday.

Russians respect Moldovan agricultural produce, he said. "But not everything at all must be imported
through Moldova, including genetically modified produce," Rogozin said.

He made a point that Russia was a traditional market for Moldovan farming produce, which has never had
rivals on the Russian market. He praised Moldovan wines, saying that "they are much cheaper than
European wines, but not inferior to them in quality."

Russia banned imports of Moldovan fruits, canned vegetables and fruit, meat and other products in 2014,
earlier reports said. A government resolution that took effect in late August, introduced import duties on
agricultural products from Moldova. The protection measures were introduced after Moldova signed an
association agreement with the European Union on June 27 2014, which provides for the formation of a
free trade zone between them.

Dodon said during the talks that Moldovan farmers failed to sell 200,000 tonnes of apples in 2014 as a
result of the Russian ban. "This means that they have lost $250 million - $300 million," he said. "We
have lost the Russian market, but did not get European buyers, where no one is waiting for us," the
Moldovan politician said.

Page224of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Dodon also said that almost 60% of the population of Moldova think Moldova must join the customs union.
"The anti-European sentiment is strong, and the chance is high that a pro-Moldovan majority will be
formed after parliamentary elections,' he said.

Moldova's parliamentary elections are due to be held on November 30.

MOSCOW. Nov 19 (Interfax) - Russia had 0.3% inflation in the week of November 11-17, Rosstat reported
on Wednesday.

Inflation in the previous week (holiday-shortened to just five days, November 6-10) was 0.2%, and
amounted to 0.3% in the (nine-day) week of October 28-November 5, 0.2% in October 21-27 and 0.3% in
October 14-20.

The average daily inflation rate through the first 17 days of November was 0.039%, down from 0.041%
through the first 10 days, but still higher than the daily average of 0.026% in October and 0.019% in
November 2013.

Prices rose 0.7% in the first 17 days of November (compared with 0.3% in the same period of 2013 and
0.6% in the entire month). Inflation in the year so far is 7.9%.

Rosstat stopped publishing same-date-last-year inflation figures in August 2014, but inflation was 0.1% in
the week November 12-18 last year and 0.3% in the first 18 days of November.

Based on the Rosstat data, inflation in annual terms rose to 8.7%-8.8% on November 17, up from
8.5%-8.6% on November 10, 8.3% at the end of October, 8% at the end of September and 7.6% at the
end of August.

ALMATY. Nov 13 (Interfax) - Kazakhstan produced 2.078 trillion tenge worth of agricultural products in
January-October 2014, a decrease of 2% from the same period last year, the Statistics Committee of the
National Economy Ministry said.
Livestock production came to 947.8 billion tenge in value, up 3.5% year-on-year, while crop production
was worth 1.125 trillion tenge, down 6.1%.
Head of cattle grew by 2.4% year-on-year to 6.325 million head.
Head of goats decreased by 2.7% to 2.610 million, pigs by 12.2% to 0.977 million head, while the
number of horses grew by 6.4% to 1.935 million head, sheep by 1.8% to 17 million head and poultry by
1.2% to 36.5 million head.

*** The Pyaterochka chain, which generates more than half of the revenue of Russia's second largest
retailer X5 Retail Group, has found a way to boost store traffic and sales. It will provide its cash register
infrastructure to partners operating under store-within-a-store arrangements, enabling it to include their
sales in its reporting. Stores within stores in the Pyaterochka chain could have combined sales of 60
billion-80 billion rubles this year (Vedomosti, p. 11).
*** Agrokomplex, an agribusiness group with ties to the family of Krasnodar Territory Governor Alexander
Tkachev, could become one of the five largest landowners in Russia. The company is buying all of the 14
farms of Valinor Group, which work 170,000 hectares in three southern regions. The acquisition would
increase Agrokomplex's land holdings to 440,000 hectares (Vedomosti, p. 10).
*** Valio, a major Finnish dairy company, might build another plant in the Moscow Region, where, among
other things, it might make hard cheeses previously imported from Finland. The company also intends to
lease production lines at milk processing plants in the region in a bid to maintain its position on the
Russian market, which accounted for half of Valio's exports before the imposition of the restrictions on
food imports from certain countries (Kommersant, p. 9).

*** Russia's vodka market is set to grow in 2015 after shrinking for years, distillers believe. Poland's
CEDC, which recently merged with Rustam Tariko's Russian Standard Vodka and other assets, hopes to
improve sales for the first time in many years thanks to a freeze on excises and the government's fight
against illegal product (Vedomosti, p. 11).

*** The Crimean authorities are imposing restrictions on food exports due to the possibility of food
shortages on the Black Sea peninsula. Until April 1, 2015, it will only be possible to ship meat and dairy
products, flour and baked goods, cereal grains and other "socially important" food goods out of Crimea
with permission from the regional agriculture ministry. The government of Sevastopol is prepared to make
a similar decision soon (Kommersant, p. 9).

Page225of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.24.10.14 31.10.14 07.11.14 14.11.14

8,455
$176.6
7,790
$162.7
4,705
$98.3
7,340
$153.3
5,825
$121.7
6,600
$137.9
6,465
$135.0

8,215
$195.8
7,565
$180.3
4,605
$109.7
7,075
$168.6
5,675
$135.2
6,500
$154.9
6,225
$148.3

*** Kazakhstan has banned the sale of a range of vodka and beer brands from Russia, including the
vodkas of Roust and Kristall-Lefortovo and the Russian-made beers of Anheuser-Busch InBev and Efes.
Kazakhstan said the products do not meet local food safety requirements, but market players suspect the
ban is retaliation for Russia's decision to restrict imports of Kazakh vodka by individuals (Kommersant, p.
12).
Product
latest Oct -14 Nov-13
Grade 3 wheat (23% gluten) (rubles/tonne) 7,950
7,950
710
7,759
Grade 3 wheat (23% gluten) ($/tonne)
$190.1
$236
$16.8 $193
7,305
Grade 4 wheat (rubles/tonne)
660
7,329
7,134
Grade 4 wheat ($/tonne)
$174.7
$217
$15.6 $178
4,525
Food rye (rubles/tonne)
5,450
4,400
390
Food rye ($/tonne)
$108.2
$9.2
$107
$166
6,830
Fodder wheat (rubles/tonne)
6,356
480
6,816
$163.4
Fodder wheat ($/tonne)
$11.7 $165
$194
Fodder barley (rubles/tonne)
5,500
5,978
460
5,515
$131.5
Fodder barley ($/tonne)
$11.0 $134
$182
Brewing barley (rubles/tonne)
6,100
7,950
6,138
400
$145.9
Brewing barley ($/tonne)
$9.9
$149
$242
Fodder corn (rubles/tonne)
6,000
640
5,946
5,041
Fodder corn ($/tonne)
$143.5
$14.9 $144
$154
Product
latest Oct -14 Nov-13
Top-grade wheat flour (rubles/tonne) 12,575
Top-grade wheat flour ($/tonne)
$300.8
11,970
Grade-1 wheat flour (rubles/tonne)
$286.3
Grade-1 wheat flour ($/tonne)
Grade-2 wheat flour (rubles/tonne)
10,210
$244.2
Grade-2 wheat flour ($/tonne)
Hulled rye flour (rubles/tonne)
8,180
$195.6
Hulled rye flour ($/tonne)

9,165
$193.4
8,450
$178.3
5,095
$107.5
7,820
$165.0
6,285
$132.6
7,000
$147.7
7,105
$149.9

11,779
$371
11,478
$350
10,098
$308
8,930
$272

12,569
$305
11,998
$291
10,235
$248
8,153
$198
Product
Oct -14 Nov-13
Grade-1 buckwheat (rubles/tonne) 16,915
15,146
20,698
Grade-1 buckwheat ($/tonne)
$404.6
$500
$461
26,000
Grade-1 rice (rubles/tonne)
23,393
25,954
Grade-1 rice ($/tonne)
$621.9
$629
$713

12,685
$302.3
12,150
$289.5
10,340
$246.4
8,180
$194.9

24.10.14 31.10.14 07.11.14 14.11.14 latest
1,395
$38.0
6,905
$151.3

33,440
$796.9
26,030
$620.3

40,000
$835.5
26,250
$548.3

41,395
$873.5
33,155
$699.6

24.10.14 31.10.14 07.11.14 14.11.14

12,975
$271.0
12,415
$259.3
10,465
$218.6
8,190
$171.1

13,440
$283.6
12,755
$269.1
10,815
$228.2
8,810
$185.9

465
$12.6
340
$9.8
350
$9.6
620
$14.8

Page226of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.12,215
$255.1

12,865
$271.5

650
$16.3

24.10.14 31.10.14 07.11.14 14.11.14
13,740
$328.6

14,590
$347.7

15,375
$321.1

16,035
$338.3

660

37,165

$766.4

3,630

30,878

27,624

$700.4

$784.2

Change, %

33,535

$745.2

$841

13,423 9,884

11,790
$281.0

11,265
$269.4

11,554
$352

Grade-1 millet (rubles/tonne)
11,339
Grade-1 millet ($/tonne)
$275
Product
latest Oct -14 Nov-13
Sunflower seeds (rubles/tonne)
Sunflower seeds ($/tonne)
$17.2 $325
$301
Unrefined,sunflower,
oil,(rubles/tonne) 31,155
32,160
Unrefined,sunflower,oil,($/tonne)
$83.8 $748
Rate
Per
Currency
40.7416 -0.617
1
Australia (Dollar)
59.9482 0.042
1
Azerbaijan (Manat)
11.2780 -0.038
100
Armenia (Dram)
10000 43.2852 -0.125
Belarus (Rubel)
30.1645 0.594
1
Bulgaria (Lev)
1
18.2108 1.098
Brazil (Real)
100
19.3127 0.799
Hungary (Forint)
42.5075 -0.495
1000
South Korea (Won)
79.2475 0.571
10
Denmark (Krone)
1
47.0294 0.106
United States (Dollar)
1
58.9090 0.451
EURO
100
76.0563 -0.007
India (Rupee)
25.9946 0.131
100
Kazakhstan (Tenge)
1
41.5234 -0.327
Canada (Dollar)
81.6483 0.106
100
Kyrgyzstan (Som)
China (Yuan)
10
76.8429 0.125
17.0867 0.593
1
Lithuania (Lita)
31.1556 0.401
10
Moldova (Lei)
1
13.3032 0.553
Romanian (Leu)
1
16.5015 0.106
Turkmenistan (Manat)
69.7579 0.373
Norway (Krone)
10
13.9985 0.717
1
Poland (Zloty)
SDR (Special Drawing Rights) 1
68.9940 0.178
Singapore (Dollar)
1
36.1181 -0.233
Tajikistan (Somoni)
10
90.5980 0.106
21.1321 0.097
1
Turkish (Lira)
19.6218 0.106
1000
Uzbekistan (Sum)
Ukraine (Hryvna)
10
30.2849 0.106
United Kingdom (Pound STG)
1
73.4552 -0.092
Czech Republic (Koruna)
10
21.3092 0.596
63.7073 0.424
10
Sweden (Krona)
49.1169 0.608
1
Switzerland (Franc)
South Africa (Rand)
10
42.6737 0.781
Japan (Yen)
100
40.0864 -0.406

* SDR - Special Drawing Rights. It is the unit of account for the International Monetary Fund
Country
Azerbaijan
Armenia
Georgia
Belarus
Kazakhstan
Kyrgyzstan
Lithuania
Moldova
Russia

For $1
Currency
0.7845
manat
dram
416.37
1.7643
lari
bel.ruble 10770
tenge
180.87
57.6
som
2.7647
litas
leu
15.1144
ruble
46.9797

For 1
For 1
EUR
ruble
0.0167
0.982
521.75
8.87
0.037555 2.2077
228.5
13440
3.88
225.94
71.9597
1.2261
0.058913 3.4528
0.323
18.9164
58.6448

Page227of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.somoni
Tajikistan
Turkmenistan manat
hryvnia
Ukraine
Uzbekistan
sum

5.0806
2.85
15.20011 0.32355
2396.79

6.3627
0.107
0.061167 3.5631
19.021418
50.57
3006.43

Interfax Corporate News Agency provides companies, banks and organizations with unique professional
analytical surveys of various Russian markets and sectors. The publications are available in hard copy or
by e-mail. To subscribe, please, contact us by telephone +7 499 250 8353, or e-mail .

INTERFAX -CORPORATE NEWS AGENCY

Phone: +7 499 250 8353

E-mail:

Web:

Recent Publications *New available publications

Hard Copy or E-Mail

Economy

Russia’s Mineral Wealth: Focus on a Robust Reserves Growth (2014)
Russia and China: Expanding Economic Ties

Companies & Holdings
Russia's Business Guide: Top Sectoral, Regional, Foreign Companies

Russia's Top Holdings and Companies (2014)
Russia's Top 30 Holdings in H1 2014: Structure, Financials, Shareholders, Business Priorities and Key
Companies

Financial Results of Top Russian Companies for 2014: Consensus Forecast

Foreign Companies in Russia: The Most Lucrative Consumer Market Segments
Energy

Russia’s Oil Sector in 2013
Russia’s Oil Sector: Tight Oil Challenge
Russia's Oil Sector: Looking for Better Taxation
Russia's Oil Refining: Adjusting to Reforms *New!

Russia’s Gas Industry (2014) - A Comprehensive Insight

Russia’s LNG Projects
Russia’s Oil&Gas Projects on the Arctic Shelf
Russia's Oil and Gas Holdings in H1 2014

Russia’s Electric Power Sector in 2013-2014

Metals

Russia’s Ferrous Metals Sector in 2013

Russia’s Non-Ferrous Metals Sector in 2013

Russia’s Ferrous and Non-Ferrous Metals Holdings in H1 2014
Russia’s Coal Industry in 2013
Construction & Property

Page228of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Russia’s Construction Sector - A Comprehensive Insight

Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals

Russia's Commodity Chemicals Sector in 2013-2014

Russia's Mineral Fertilizer Industry in 2013

Food & Agriculture

Russia’s Retail Market in H1 2014

A Comprehensive Insight in Russian Meat and Meat Products Market in 2013-2014

CO ssjhoi : Federal State Statistics Service of Russia
IN

NS

RE

i0100128 : Sugar Beet Farming | i010013202 : Edible Oil Plant/Seed Farming (except Soybean) | i0 :
Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | i0100132 : Oilseed/Grain Farming | isugar : Sugar Farming
c312 : External Markets | c21 : Output/Production | c31 : Marketing/Markets | ccat : Corporate/Industrial
News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
russ : Russia | astana : Astana | crimea : Crimea | mscity : Moscow City | ukrn : Ukraine | usa : United
States | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr :
Australia | bric : BRICS Countries | casiaz : Central Asia | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | eeurz : Central/Eastern Europe | eurz : Europe | kazk : Kazakhstan | namz :
North America | rucfd : Central Federal District | ussrz : CIS Countries

PUB Interfax Information Services, B.V.
AN

Document FOAGR00020141203eabj00001

Page229of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.