Sale of Yaldara turns clock forward to 1847

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Sale of Yaldara turns clock forward to 1847

CAMERON ENGLAND
411 words
25 July 2014
The Advertiser
ADVTSR
Advertiser
72
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

CHATEAU Yaldara has been sold by owner Australian Vintage to the Chinese owned-company 1847
Winery.

The winery – which was established in 1947 by refugee Hermann Thumm – is expected to change
hands in November or December as soon as 1847 acquires a liquor licence for the winery. 1847 is
owned by Zhitai Wang of NSW and Kuifen Wang from Adelaide’s sister city Qingdao, in Shandong
province in China.

It will mark a step up for the smaller company, which has previously been making its wine on a
contract basis with various wineries. 1847 will employ some existing staff at the winery, while
Australian Vintage will also retain some staff.

Australian Vintage chief executive Neil McGuigan said Yaldara, which it bought in 1999, had been an
important part of the company and its people were “first class’’.

“The staff have made a significant contribution to our business,’’ he said. “To ensure that our high
quality is maintained we have entered into a two-year processing agreement with 1847 and we will
also retain a number of winemakers on-site post completion.

“We will retain our Barossa Valley Farms vineyard, the grapes from which are critical to our super
premium wines program.
“The company’s focus remains on its three fundamental strategies: grow export business, build
branded sales with emphasis on the McGuigan, Tempus Two and Nepenthe brands, and be the
lowest-cost producer of quality wines. The sale of the Yaldara Winery and the Yaldara brand is
another step towards achieving those strategies.

“Over the next two years we will be exploring various options regarding the long-term processing of our
super premium grapes from the Barossa, Adelaide Hills and adjacent regions. The net funds from the
sale of the Yaldara Winery and Yaldara brand will initially be used to reduce debt.’’ Yaldara is an
Aboriginal name meaning “sparkling”.
The company’s flagship product is its 40-year-old premium port and it also produces the Yaldara
Estate shiraz, cabernet sauvignon and sauvignon blanc.

1847 chief executive John Curnow said yesterday the acquisition had been more than two years in the
making.

“Previously 1847’s operations were restricted with winemaking operations sourced from various
contract winemaking facilities on an annual basis. Chateau Yaldara now provides opportunity for
continued expansion of both the brand and range in both domestic and international
markets.’’Australian Vintage shares closed 1c higher at 35.5c.

Page299of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

i426 : Wine | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | ialco : Alcoholic Beverages/Drinks | ibevrge :
Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | saustr : South Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document ADVTSR0020140724ea7p00097

Page300of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.