Padbury losing Oakajee pulse

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Padbury losing Oakajee pulse

ANDREW BURRELL, FINANCING
420 words
19 April 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
22
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

PADBURY Mining’s plan to revive the $6.5 billion Oakajee port and rail project may be dead before
it is even fully announced after the Perth-based junior failed again to reveal the identity of its
cashed-up financial backers.

In the latest sign that the Perth junior is struggling to substantiate its claim to the market that it has
raised 100 per cent of the equity needed to build the infrastructure, Padbury said on Thursday it
would need to extend its trading halt until next Wednesday.

The company told the Australian Securities Exchange it was still seeking information from parties to
the funding deal “in respect of their capacity to meet their funding obligations” — the first indication
that Padbury may be unaware how its backers are sourcing the capital.

Padbury also revealed it had still not received its backers’ consent to disclose the funding
agreement amid mounting speculation that colourful Sydney entrepreneur Roland Frank Bleyer is a
supporter.
The company announced last week that it had executed an agreement with unnamed Australian
equity investors to build the Oakajee deepwater port and rail project in Western Australia’s midwest.

After regulators demanded more information, Padbury promised to update the market by Tuesday of
this week, at which point it extended its trading halt until Thursday. But on Thursday, Padbury simply
asked for an extension until next Wednesday.
It previously said the funding would be in three tranches: a first tranche of $US470 million, a second
of $US3.45bn and a third of $US2.55bn.

Chief executive Gary Stokes told The Weekend Australian last week that the deal was genuine and
said he was disappointed that some people were sceptical of it.

But WA Premier Colin Barnett said this week he was concerned Padbury’s bid to restart Oakajee
lacked substance.
Instead, Mr Barnett said Oakajee’s future lay with Chinese backing, revealing he believed
state-owned conglomerate Citic Group would spearhead Chinese involvement in the project.

The Oakajee infrastructure — which has been promised in vain by various parties during the past 30
years — would service the mines of the midwest and open a new iron ore export province.

Japanese corporate giant Mitsubishi last year abandoned plans to build the Oakajee port and rail
network, citing weaker iron ore prices and an inability to entice China to invest billions of dollars in
the region.Padbury’s share price rose up as much as 170 per cent after the announcement of the
deal.

CO

rivgol : Padbury Mining Limited

Page174of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

i5020017 : Harbor Construction | i502 : Heavy Construction | iconst : Construction | icre : Real
Estate/Construction | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2112 : Gold Ore/Silver Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140418ea4j0000b

Page175of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.