Young rural minds descend on Goondiwindi

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

news
Young rural minds descend on Goondiwindi

By Grace Cobb
938 words
18 September 2014
Goondiwindi Argus
FGOONA
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

MORE than 150 young farmers, agronomists, and curious young rural minds descended on
Goondiwindi for the GEN XYForum last week.
It was hosted by NAB Agribusiness, Insight Business and Financial Services, Queensland Cotton and
Objective Livestock Marketing.

Guest speakers were Andrew Jurgs from Philp Brodie Grains, Tim Wilson of Blue Sky Investments and
Denis Wagner of Wagners, Toowoomba.

The Gen XY forum, now in its fourth year, is intended to empower young stakeholders involved in the
Australian agricultural sector with skills they can use to run a business or farm successfully.

"Gen XYs" are typically known as an ambitious, sometimes" entitled" generations armed with
technology and diversity - a generation which is globally connected and inundated with information like
never before.

The first speaker, relatively young for his experienced and well-travelled career, was Andrew Jurgs,
Regional Trading Manager of Philp Brodie Grains.

He spoke about markets in general and not just crops.

His message: Markets can be very volatile and very cruel," and that both the International and domestic
markets can be a "fluctuating beast"

His key points: 1) Stay in touch with the markets through a trader or adviser 2) make sure one of your
buyers is a major 3) Know your counter party.

The second speaker Tim Wilson of Blue Sky Investments was present to introduce the room to
"alternatives", or alternative investments and, in particular, private equity.

Blue Sky manages $700m worth of assets, which Tim attributes to "hard work".

Blue Sky has offices throughout Australia and even an office in New York.

Working with brands such as Lenard's Chicken and Viking Rentals it assists with venture capital for
business such a Milk, the skincare company founded by Lindy and Michael Klim.

" The one area that is absolutely a key component, and the most advanced trading market in the world
is water," Tim said.

He pointed out alternatives and outlets to traditional investments and ways of thinking.

The crowd was keen to hear from the final speaker Denis Wagner, one of the four Wagner brothers
partnered in the Wagners business which bases operations out of Toowoomba and is responsible for
the new airport now nearing completion.

Page24of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Wagners work within many industries which use cement, composite fibre technologies, transport, earth
friendly concrete, aviation and reinforced steel, not only in Australia, but globally.

It has a division based in Kuala Lumpur, with staff working on projects as far afield as Russia.
The new aerodrome site in Toowoomba, Wellcamp Downs, was purchased by Wagners in 1994. From
1996 it was used as a quarry.
The airport is merely one aspect of a Wellcamp Business Park, a "business hub" for Toowoomba and
regional Queensland.

But there were roadblocks, the main one was "isolation".

"We very quickly formed the view, unless we could solve the connectivity issue for Toowoomba, we
were unlikely to gain any traction for our business park," Mr Wagner said..

In April 2012 the four brothers made the decision to build the airport which involved rezoning 300
hectares of the site.

"From an investment perspective there was no real view within Wagners that the airport would generate
allot of income. The original investment decision was made around the fact that the airport would
increase the value of the business park, through connectivity."

The airport is unique for many reasons.

All the heavy construction materials including 9.6million tonnes of rock have all been sourced from
on-site. All airport foundations, and gravel for asphalt have also been sourced on site.

Wellcamp is the first public airport to be built in Australia with absolutely no public funding.

The Wellcamp Runway is 2.87 kilometres long and 45 metres wide.

"(It"s) wide enough and long enough for a jumbo jet to leave Wellcamp fully loaded and get to northern
ports in China which is very important from a freight perspective," Mr Wagner said.

Quantas will begin flying passengers out of Wellcamp to Sydney on November 17 , with routes to Perth
and Melbourne as well as regional centres added when deemed necessary.
With Wagners expecting to have half a million passengers in the first 12 months, the effect on the local
Toowoomba economy is expected to be significant.

"What Wellcamp will give our agriculture producers is an alternative to the two major supermarket
chains Coles and Woolworths," Mr Wagner said.

He also believes that Wellcamp has the potential to change the landscape of the local agriculture
sector, given that a plane can be loaded with cold stores and arrive in Singapore seven hours later.

Not all have agreed, with the airport attracting national media attention, and speculation, especially from
radio 2GB "shock jock" Alan Jones.

Wagners hit back with John Wagner callling Jones a "loud-mouthed ignoramus".

There was no crticism from audience members.
"It was inspiring for the audience to hear how you can execute a new business idea or project head on,
instead of shelving it with a fear of failure.

"Wagners have certainly seized an opportunity and the benefit to our community will be vast," said NAB
Agribusiness Manager Sarah Short.

The common message that could be heard from all three speakers was success can be gained from
managed risk and successful marketing within the agricultural sector.

"If you want to grow the best quality product in the world, you are only - of the way there, marketing is
essential," Andrew Jurgs said.

One of the event organisers, Sarah says the team is "looking forward to hosting future Gen XY events
to continually upskill the next generation.

CO

qc : Queensland Cotton Holdings Ltd

Page25of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

RE
PUB
AN

i05 : Support Activities for Agriculture | i0 : Agriculture | i43 : Textiles | iclt : Clothing/Textiles | icnp :
Consumer Goods
austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FGOONA0020140919ea9i00001

Page26of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.