Herbert Smith Freehills advises on US$1 billion bond offering by Oil India Limited 17 April 2014

HD Herbert Smith Freehills advises on US$1 billion bond offering by Oil India Limited 17 April 2014
WC 1,128 words
PD
18 April 2014
SN
News Bites - Private Companies
SC
NBPRCO
LA
English
CY
Copyright 2014. News Bites Pty Ltd.
LP

NEWS BITES - PRIVATE COMPANIES
[Company Release]

TD

Herbert Smith Freehills is pleased to announce that it has advised on a US$1 billion dual-tranche note
offering by state-run Oil India Limited. The deal is the largest ever bond issue from an Indian public sector
enterprise and also the largest ever Reg S-only issuance by an Indian company.
The firm's team on the transaction, led by Singapore partner Philip Lee, acted for Citi, Deutsche Bank,
HSBC, the Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) and Standard Chartered Bank as joint lead managers.
Listed on the Singapore Exchange, the offering comprised two tranches-a US$500 million 3.875% 5-year
tranche and a US$500 million 5.375% 10-year tranche. The offering was oversubscribed approximately
9.2 times making it one of the largest order books for a US dollar-denominated bond offering by an Indian
issuer.

Philip was supported by senior associates Gareth Deiner and Preeti Kamat, and associates Jenny Qi,
Nupur Kant and Yuji Huang, in Singapore. The transaction also required in-depth Office of Foreign
Assets Control (OFAC) and Sanctions-related advice, which was provided by global corporate crime and
investigations head Kyle Wombolt, who was assisted by senior associate James Dalton and associates
Geng Li and Zhang Siyu, in Hong Kong.

Philip commented:
"We are delighted to have assisted Oil India and to have advised the joint lead managers on this
incredibly successful benchmark transaction, one that truly demonstrates the fundamental strength of
credits in the region. This deal has allowed us to bring our deep experience of executing debt capital
markets transactions in India to the fore, and also illustrates the value-add of our integrated service
offerings."
Herbert Smith Freehills has been very active in the Indian debt capital markets space. Last year, the firm
advised ANZ, Citi, Deutsche Bank and Standard Chartered Bank on the issue of S$350,000,000 4.25%
senior notes by TML Holdings Pte. Ltd., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Tata Motors and the holding
company of Jaguar Land Rover PLC, which was the largest-ever five-year Singapore Dollar bond
benchmark by an Indian corporate issuer and the largest-ever unrated Singapore Dollar bond by an Indian
issuer. Separately, the firm also advised the joint lead managers in respect of Tata Communications'
S$250 million notes issue, the first note issued by a non-bank Indian corporate in the Singapore
dollar-denominated capital markets in 2013.
The firm also advised Citicorp International Limited as Trustee and Citibank, N.A., London Branch in
various agency capacities on the transaction. Hong Kong finance partner Alex Aitken and consultant
Etelka Bogardi advised these aspects of the transaction.

Click here for the full original announcement
COMPANY BACKGROUND

ACTIVITIES
Herbert Smith LLP provides legal advisory services. The firm focuses on areas including dispute
resolution, intellectual property, real estate, international law, trusts and charities, tax, and capital

Page185of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.markets. It has strategic alliance with Gleiss Lutz and Stibbe. Herbert Smith was founded in 1882 and is
based in London, United Kingdom with additional offices in Japan, Singapore, China, France, Hong Kong,
and Belgium.

BUSINESS NEWS ROUND UP

17 April 2014: Herbert Smith Freehills advises Japara Healthcare Ltd on its Initial Public Offering
[Company Release] Herbert Smith Freehills has advised Japara Healthcare Limited on its A$525m initial
public offering on the Australian Securities Exchange. Macquarie Capital acted as lead manager and
underwriter and CBA Equities Limited and Morgans Corporate Limited were each co-lead managers. This
offering included a corporate restructure to amalgamate the operating entities and the property
investment trust of the Japara group under the new listed company. Japara is one of the largest
residential aged care operators of healthcare services in Australia servicing over 3,000 residents
nationally across 35 facilities located in Victoria, New South Wales, South Australia and Tasmania.
Andrew Sudholz, CEO of Japara, said, "We are pleased with the outcome of our IPO and thank all our
advisers for making this complex transaction a smooth process." The transaction was led by Herbert
Smith Freehills' co-head of equity capital markets Michael Ziegelaar, senior associate Cecilia Mehl and
solicitor Andrew Earle.

Click here for the full original announcement

17 April 2014: Herbert Smith Freehills advises Japara Healthcare Ltd on its Initial Public Offering
[Company Release] Herbert Smith Freehills has advised Japara Healthcare Limited on its A$525m initial
public offering on the Australian Securities Exchange. Macquarie Capital acted as lead manager and
underwriter and CBA Equities Limited and Morgans Corporate Limited were each co-lead managers. This
offering included a corporate restructure to amalgamate the operating entities and the property
investment trust of the Japara group under the new listed company. Japara is one of the largest
residential aged care operators of healthcare services in Australia servicing over 3,000 residents
nationally across 35 facilities located in Victoria, New South Wales, South Australia and Tasmania.
Andrew Sudholz, CEO of Japara, said, "We are pleased with the outcome of our IPO and thank all our
advisers for making this complex transaction a smooth process." The transaction was led by Herbert
Smith Freehills' co-head of equity capital markets Michael Ziegelaar, senior associate Cecilia Mehl and
solicitor Andrew Earle.

Click here for the full original announcement
15 April 2014: Herbert Smith Freehills advises Shunfeng Photovoltaic on RMB3 Billion acquisition of
Wuxi Suntech Power
[Company Release] Herbert Smith Freehills has advised Shunfeng Photovoltaic International Limited on
the acquisition of 100% interests in Wuxi Suntech Power Co. Ltd. from its administrator for RMB3 billion
(US$482 million). The Herbert Smith Freehills team was led by Hong Kong partner Jason Sung, who
was supported by associates Ruth Lau, Eugene Lau and Jessica Leung in Hong Kong.

Click here for the full original announcement
14 April 2014: Herbert Smith Freehills advises Safran on its EUR200 million Eurobond Issue
[Company Release] Herbert Smith Freehills Paris LLP has advised Safran, a leading international
high-tech group with three core businesses: aerospace (engines and equipment), defence and security,
on a EUR200 million bond issue. The bonds are due to mature in 2024. The issue consisted of a private
placement listed on NYSE Euronext arranged by Morgan Stanley & Co.

Click here for the full original announcement

10 April 2014: Herbert Smith Freehills improves diversity with launch of disability network
[Company Release] Herbert Smith Freehills has launched a disability network, HSF Ability, to recognise
the importance of increasing awareness and understanding of disability throughout the firm. The
introduction of the network follows a gradual increase in the number of individuals declaring a disability in
the firm's annual London/Belfast diversity audit.

Click here for the full original announcement

CO oilind : Oil India Limited | rbsct : Royal Bank of Scotland Group PLC | freeho : Freehills

Page186of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS

RE

i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | i835 : Legal
Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
c172 : Corporate Debt Instruments | c1711 : Initial Public Offerings | c1521 : Analyst
Comments/Recommendations | c1522 : Share Price Movement/Disruptions | npress : Press Releases |
c02 : Corporate Changes | c14 : Stock Listings | c15 : Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | c17 :
Funding/Capital | c171 : Share Capital | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat
: Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
india : India | austr : Australia | singp : Singapore | uk : United Kingdom | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia
| ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | indsubz : Indian Subcontinent |
sasiaz : Southern Asia | seasiaz : Southeast Asia | weurz : Western Europe

IPD ACTIVITIES; BUSINESS NEWS ROUND UP
PUB News Bites Pty Ltd (Europe)
AN Document NBPRCO0020140418ea4i0048u

Page187of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.