Tourism rise risks loving reef to death

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Tourism rise risks loving reef to death

»NINA KARNIKOWSKI, SHERIDEN RHODES
896 words
5 January 2014
Sun Herald
SHD
Second
15
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Massive new tourism resorts with price tags of more than $5 billion on the Great Barrier Reef have
raised concerns the fragile World Heritage-listed region is in danger of being loved to death.

The projects include the controversial $4.3 billion Aquis Great Barrier Reef Resort proposed for
Yorkeys Knob in Cairns – including a casino, nine luxury hotels, a sports stadium and high-end retail
shopping.

Then there is the state government-approved $600 million resort on Great Keppel Island, stage one
of which is set to open mid-next year.

For the tourism lobby the developments are good news for an industry that raises $5.7 billion in
revenue annually, attracting hundreds of thousands of domestic and international visitors. But views
differ on how the tourism developments affect the reef’s fragile ecosystem.

Daniel Gschwind, chief executive of the Queensland Tourism Industry Council, does not believe the
investments will adversely affect the reef. He says the tourism industry is “absolutely dependent” on
the reef’s sustainability and preservation.

“To maintain the level of income that’s generated by tourism to the reef and the 50,000 jobs it
generates, we depend on its ecological integrity being maintained, because that’s our competitive
advantage and what sets us apart from other like attractions,” Mr Gschwind says.

Wendy Tubman, co-ordinator of the North Queensland Conservation Council, says the developments
were starting to risk “loving the reef to death, of killing the very thing that people have come to see”.

“The unprecedented level of tourism development now being proposed is over the top, with some of
the proposed developments being the equivalent of small towns,” Ms Tubman says.

Citing research released by the Australian Institute of Marine Science in 2012, which showed coral
cover has decreased by 50 per cent over the preceding 27 years, Ms Tubman says that, “the reef is
just not able to take more human-induced impacts without great risk of collapse.”

And while each development may have only a small impact, we could be seeing “death by 1000 cuts”,
as we do not yet know what the cumulative impacts will be.

Mr Gschwind counters with a UNESCO mission report on the reef from 2012 that found the tourism
industry did not pose any significant threat to the reef.
The UNESCO report makes the following observation: ‘‘Commercial marine tourism is now planned
and managed sustainably, with minimal environmental and social impacts such as crowding. Through
this continuous, effective management, commercial marine tourism is no longer considered as a
major threat to the OUV [outstanding universal value] of the property, provided current management
measures continue.’’

Page34of210©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.A research scientist at James Cook University’s Australian Centre for Tropical Freshwater Research,
Jon Brodie, says tourism is a relatively minor issue when it comes to the reef’s future.

“Great Barrier Reef tourism has been known for a long time to have minimal impacts on the reef,’’ Mr
Brodie says.

‘‘It’s the least of our problems, given that we’re not managing port development at all, we’re not doing
anything about climate change, or about agricultural pollution.”

1. Port Douglas
The 170-room QT Port Douglas hotel opened in June 2012 after a $6.5 million revamp.

2. Yorkeys Knob, Cairns

First stage of $4.2 billion Aquis Great Barrier Reef Resort approved. To include nine luxury hotels, an
18-hole golf course, a 25,000-seat sports stadium and a casino.
3. Dunk Island

Reopened for day-trippers after the 2011 cyclone.
4. Orpheus Island

Boutique five-star resort re-opened in 2012 after a $5 million revamp.
5. Hayman Island

$50 million makeover with plans to re-open in July as One&Only Hayman. Owner Mulpha Australia to
continue expanding the Hayman Private Residences and Hayman Marina Residences.

6. Airlie Beach

Town has received a $23 million facelift. Peppers Coral Coast Resort rebranded to Peppers Airlie
Beach.

Stage two of Port of Airlie includes a second resort and integrated ferry, cruise and bus terminal.
Hawaiian property group Outrigger has opened the first stage of the Boathouse Apartments port
development.
7. Long Island

The 23-room beachfront Palm Bay Resort, previously under Peppers management, has relaunched
as a boutique health and event centre.
Long Island-Paradise Bay Island Resort re-opened in May 2013.
8. Hamilton Island

Owners exploring development of another luxury resort to allow families, unlike the existing Qualia
Resort. Hamilton's Beach Club Resort to undergo multimillion-dollar makeover this year.
9. Dent Island
New 100-room hotel and 200-home site approved.
10. Lindeman Island
Formerly Club Med's only Australian resort; sold to Chinese investors for $12 million and slated for a
$200 million makeover.
11. Great Keppel Island
New $600 million resort approved, including 750 resort villas, 300 apartments, a hotel, marina and
18-hole golf course.

The reef in numbers

344,400
Size in square kilometres of Great Barrier Reef Marine Park

Page35of210©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.3000

Number of coral reefs

1050

Number of islands, inshore mangrove islands and coral cays

2000

Depth in metres of continental slopes on outer reefs

820

Estimated number of tourism operators*

1500
Estimated number of vessels and aircraft allowed to operate in marine park
SOURCES: GREAT BARRIER REEF MARINE PARK AUTHORITY; GREATBARRIERREEF.ORG
*BASED ON 2006 FIGURES

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gtour : Travel | gluxtr : Luxury Travel | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New
South Wales
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SHD0000020140105ea1500012

Page36of210©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.