How to build your own BHP

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Portfolio
How to build your own BHP

Trevor Hoey
1,994 words
16 April 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
25
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Resources It takes time and cash to buy into the mining giant, so why not create your very own?

Everyone wants a piece of BHP Billiton. As Australia's biggest miner moves to streamline its
operations into just five commodities in pursuit of superior returns, its appeal as an investment
option grows.

But getting on the ownership list of the iron ore giant will take time – and dollars. So why not build
your own BHP, using the mining monster's own criteria?
The worm has turned in the mining industry. It's no longer about resources in the ground, as was the
case during the mining boom. Instead, it's all about cash in the claw.

Miners know they have to present projects with economic viability and realistically projected metrics
such as rates of return and commitments to paying dividends.
BHP is simplifying its focus into iron ore, copper, coal and petroleum, with potash thrown into the
mix, indicating it is viewed as a commodity with strong growth potential.

Smart Investor has put together a portfolio with one stock from each of those commodities, to provide
you with a model that parallels BHP's own. Of course, they are not of the same scale BHP will be
targeting, but importantly they are leveraged to the same trends.

With returns on capital invested very much in mind, it is necessary to step outside the Pilbara in
search of value.
Even after share prices have taken a hit as a result of negative sentiment towards the iron ore
sector, companies in the Pilbara continue to trade strongly. It is clearly evident that investors are still
paying top dollar for exposure to premium Pilbara ore.
Outside of Australia, Africa is one of the most prominent hosts of large iron ore resources,
particularly in the central and western regions.
Two Australian players, Equatorial Resources and Sundance Resources, have operations in the
central western African region.

Equatorial's Mayoko-Moussondji project is immediately adjacent to the Mayoko-Lekoumou project
being developed by Johannesburg-listed Exarro Resources.

Both projects are progressing with a similar stage development, targeting first production this year.
Equatorial has a market capitalisation of $65 million and, with zero debt and $45 million in cash,
has an enterprise value of about $20 million.

Page102of259©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Smart Investor recently spoke with Equatorial managing director John Welborn, who explained the
company's development plan for its wholly owned piece of land in the Mayoko region.
Upfront, he said, the mined product ore grades were well below Pilbara standards, with the JORC
mineral resource now standing at 917 million tonnes at 31.4 per cent iron, but including near surface
haematite resource of 182 million tonnes at 35.7 per cent iron.
In short, the company will employ a low-cost upgrading technique that will initially produce a 64.1 per
cent iron "Mayoko premium fines" product, which should fetch at least $120 per tonne based on
conservative estimates.
Infrastructure on the site will need minor upgrades to transport 2 million tonnes per annum to port,
but upfront costs are relatively low and the internal rate of return is estimated to be 30 per cent.
Based on the current resource and exploration upside, there is scope for a long-life project for
Equatorial, with increased annualised production at comparatively low costs.
A strong 2013 production performance from Tiger Resources' Kipoi copper project in the Democratic
Republic of Congo, combined with a substantial increase in ore reserves announced by the
company in January, has reinvigorated interest in the stock.

But details contained in a definitive feasibility study (DFS) released by Tiger shortly after show the
reserves are far more significant.

While the project may not be the next Escondida, it is situated in the heart of a prolific
copper-bearing region referred to as the "copper belt".

Consequently, the scope for Tiger to increase its high-grade reserves is substantial and this has the
potential to extend the production of premium-priced copper cathode that is sold into export markets.

As a low-cost, high-return asset, it fits the bill in terms of meeting BHP's criteria.

Analysts at Macquarie reviewed their estimates and valuation on Tiger after the group's recent
earnings results. The broker has an outperform recommendation on the stock with a 12-month price
target of 69¢, implying upside of about 85 per cent to Friday's closing price of 37.5¢.

An anticipated substantial increase in cash flow has prompted Tiger to approve a dividend policy. In
recent discussions with Smart Investor, Tiger managing director Brad Marwood expressed a strong
commitment to delivering a dividend sooner rather than later, once again meeting the need for
material shareholder returns.
As Marwood so simply put it: "The numbers speak for themselves – Kipoi is a world class copper
project."
Whitehaven Coal is hard to go past in terms of identifying a pure coal play that would fit BHP's
model.
The company has scale, scope for expansion, multiple projects and diversification across coking and
thermal coals.

Whitehaven's result for the six months to December reflected solid growth in revenues, margins and
earnings, indicating the company is poised to reap the benefits of substantial investment in recent
years. The miner's Maules Creek project, the largest in terms of reserves of the company's six
operations, is due to start production in March next year.

This is likely to prompt a significant share price re-rating in Whitehaven, given it should come on
stream with a production capacity of 6 million tonnes a year, increasing to 13 million tonnes a year.

The mine life of at least 25 years, combined with the quality of product, should provide a higher value
semi-soft coking coal account for about half of production. This premium-quality thermal coal can be
used in domestic markets or exported overseas.

Maules Creek will be Whitehaven's growth engine over the next three years as production doubles
from an anticipated 10.7 million tonnes in 2014 to 21 million tonnes in 2017.
In the interim, output from the company's Narrabri project, which accounts for about half of
production, should increase in 2014-15 and remain at a steady state production rate of nearly
6 million tonnes per annum.

Page103of259©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.While predominantly producing lower priced thermal coal, the Narrabri project provided the cash flow
and stability which has been extremely beneficial while Whitehaven has been developing Maules
Creek.
Whitehaven has definitely been a casualty of negative sentiment towards the coal sector, but unless
you are a long-term bear on the coal industry, this may be an opportune time to pick up the stock as
a real spike in production and related kick in earnings should occur between 2016 and 2017.

However, analysts are tipping the stock to begin dividend payments in 2014-15, and with most of its
low-cost projects having mine lives in excess of 20 years, the company looks an excellent value
proposition.

Having invested heavily in large-scale, long-term projects over recent years, Santos is poised to reap
the benefits over the short term, but its accelerated growth profile doesn't appear to be factored into
its share price.
It is a good time to consider Santos given that the execution risk on a number of the company's
major projects is diminishing, and the forward earnings upside is drawing closer.

Furthermore, the strategic value of the group's Moomba assets have strengthened due to increasing
gas prices, a trend expected to continue.

Santos's Cooper Basin assets have the potential to fuel the east coast of Australia for decades by
tapping into both conventional and unconventional underground reservoirs.
The company's exploration outlook appears just as promising, with a strong prospect of continued
success at existing projects as well as making further progress in the Browse Basin.

Based on Macquarie forecasts, Santos's profit growth should be outstanding over the next three
years, but particularly strong in 2014 and 2015.
During this period Santos's net profit should grow to nearly $1.2 billion, representing an increase of
about 140 per cent compared with its 2013 performance.

On a price-earnings multiple to growth (PEG) basis, Santos represents compelling value.

Looking beyond 2015, as cash flow increases substantially, dividends should also increase, making
the company an attractive yield play.
BHP's $US40 billion takeover offer for Potash Corporation of Saskatchewan back in 2010 brought
the commodity into the spotlight, but in a sense was also its undoing.

What transpired shortly after the failed takeover bid was a flood of potash "wannabes" that trashed
the commodity's name and basically turned cash into fertiliser, potash's core byproduct.

One of the best aspects of potash is its easy-to-understand applications. The main byproduct is
sodium chloride, which is sold simply as salt.

However, the most lucrative end market is the agricultural industry, as potash makes up a substantial
element of 95 per cent of fertilisers.

This is where the big industry players expect demand to outstrip supply in coming years, effectively
driving up prices and supporting BHP's belief that it belongs in a portfolio of growth commodities.

Unlike many failed projects of the past, Highfield Resources' potash assets in Spain look like the real
deal.
Experienced resources investors at EMR Capital have a substantial position in the company, with a
stake of 29.5 per cent, and expect big things from Highfield.
This is shown through EMR's decision to retain its stake rather than take a profit at a significant
premium to their entry price.

EMR managing director Jason Chang brings plenty to the table in the way of global corporate
experience, particularly across Asia and China.

A man with a strong understanding of these markets, Chang told Smart Investor he was very positive
on the macro outlook for potash as demand for fertilisers accelerates across China, India and Brazil.

Page104of259©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.He is of the view China will continue to make strategic potash acquisitions along with the likes of
BHP and Rio Tinto.

There appears to be consensus among brokers that Highfield will be one of the lowest-cost
producers on the basis of current modelling, and analysts at Canaccord expect the company to be in
production by 2016-17, generating a net profit of $33.6 million in that year.

Canaccord cited the coming results of the pre-feasibility study being undertaken at Highfield's Javier
project, which management noted should be released in May, as a likely near-term share price
catalyst.

Also, an upgraded JORC-compliant measured and indicated resource estimate should be released in
April.

This could be extremely significant in terms of the Javier project, as Highfield is of the view it should
enhance the resource estimate and extend the mine-life projections.

Highfield also owns the Sierra del Perdon project, a 100 square kilometre tenement in northern Spain
containing two former operating mines that produced close to 10 million tonnes of potash between
1972 and 1997.

Sierra del Perdon is particularly valuable given that depths from surface to potash mineralisation start
at less than 300 metres. While slightly shallower than Javier, both assets are substantially nearer the
surface than most of its peers and this is expected to be a key factor in reducing development and
production costs.

Analysts at Canaccord have a 12-month target price of 69¢ on Highfield, derived from a sum of the
parts net asset valuation which also assumes a diluted share capital structure.

The target price fully takes into account options and performance shares and provides an accurate
valuation, albeit more conservative than some other analysts.

For example, UK broker Numis Securities increased its 12-month share price target on Highfield from
$1.50 to $2 in January.

It is also much more bullish on forward earnings estimates, suggesting there could be some scope for
further upside for Highfield.

CO
IN
NS
RE
PUB
AN

bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140415ea4g0002a

Page105of259©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.