A2 Milk to use Australian cash for global expansion

HD
BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

A2 Milk to use Australian cash for global expansion

Jonathan Underhill
644 words
28 August 2014
08:33
BusinessDesk
BUSWNZ
English
Copyright 2014. Content Ltd.

A2 Milk, hit by strong kiwi, to use Australian cash for global expansion
Aug. 28 (BusinessDesk) - A2 Milk Co, which markets milk with a protein variant said to have health
benefits, will ramp up its expansion in the US, the UK and Asia using cash generated in its biggest
market of Australia after a year in which a strong kiwi slashed the value of sales and earnings.

Profit tumbled to $10,000 in the 12 months ended June 30, from $4.1 million a year earlier, the
Auckland-based company said in a statement. Sales rose 17 percent to $111 million and would have
been some $14 million higher if not for the strength of the New Zealand dollar against its Australian
counterpart.
A2's cash flow comes from its success in Australia, where it now claims 9 percent of the fresh milk
market sold through the grocery channel. Australian sales from continuing operations climbed 16
percent to $106.9 million in the latest year, accounting for 96 percent of total revenue, while earnings
rose 25 percent to $4.5 million, helping make up for losses in China and the UK. Managing director
Geoffrey Babidge calls the Australian market A2's "big cash generator", which will bankroll its push into
new markets.

"Our strategy is about increasing Australian profits fully funding initiatives in other markets," Babidge
told BusinessDesk. "That's our core proposition."

Growth in Australian market share gave A2 confidence to launch a thickened cream product, which is
performing to expectations and the range could be widened to include ice cream, he said. The
company has also trialled sales of fresh Australian milk into China, in reasonably small volumes,
which the company sells the milk free on board to Chinese distributors, who can reap enough of the
premium in the Chinese market to make up for the increased transport costs.
A bigger opportunity will be sales of UHT milk from Australia into China, Babidge said.
A2's sales push for its Platinum brand infant formula in China was thwarted this year by changes to
Chinese registration rules. New Zealand New Milk, which has been packing the product for A2, did
achieve registration in July but sales of A2's products won't ramp up until its main partner, Synlait Milk,
gains registration, which Babidge hopes will be in September.

"We're very much joined at the hip with Synlait," he said. That relationship "provides more certainty and
longevity going forward." A2 has made only two small shipments to China of A2 Platinum, the last in
April. Once Synlait gains registration shipments would start in earnest, likely in the first half of the
current year.
The company sees a "big revenue opportunity" in the US market, where it plans to invest $20 million
over three years. Its US push will be through a wholly owned subsidiary, with manufacture and
packaging of A2 milk outsourced to contract packers. It has shortlisted two candidates.
The company has also identified sources of milk with the A2 protein variant though work still needed
to be done to separate out those cows from local herds. A "very managed, regional launch" in the US is
likely to be in the second half of 2015, Babidge said.

Page59of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The company will also increase investment in the UK market, where it recorded a wider loss of $2.2
million in the latest year, on sales of $1.1 million. A2 had some $16 million cash on hand at the end
of the year, down from $20 million at the start of the year.
The shares last traded at 65 cents and have declined 19 percent this year. The stock is rated a 'buy',
based on the consensus of four analysts polled by Reuters, with a median price target of 86 cents.

(BusinessDesk)

NS
RE

PUB
AN

ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | china : China | nz : New Zealand | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz :
Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging
Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America
Content Ltd
Document BUSWNZ0020140828ea8r0002v

Page60of399©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.