Valence's steady start gets IPO ball rolling

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Finance
Valence's steady start gets IPO ball rolling

SARAH-JANE TASKER, TRANSPORT
456 words
7 January 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
1 - All-round Country
14
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

FLOATS: Graphite miner Valence Industries kicked off the Australian IPO market for the year
yesterday with a steady debut ahead of its plan to restart South Australia's historic Uley mine.
The stock opened at 20c, hit a high of 22c and then closed at 20c, with more than 1.5 million shares
traded on its first day.

Managing director Christopher Darby said the company was keen to ensure it was the first to list on
the Australian market this year.

``We started this program to get listed in late July (2013) and we have it listed in under six months . . .
there is that change in sentiment, it's more optimistic,'' he said. ``For a company that is going to be
more an industrial manufacturer than a miner, it really does put us in a different space.

``We had a good start (yesterday) and we are mostly looking forward to getting into production this
quarter -- that's the main focus for us.''

Valence plans to start production at Uley, 23km from Port Lincoln on the Lower Eyre Peninsula, in the
first quarter of the year. About 50 people will be employed to bring the mining and manufacturing
facilities back online. Graphite production -- which is used in a range of products from lead pencils to
batteries and high-end electronics -- from Uley has been in intermittent operation since the late 1800s.
The company, which has a market capitalisation of $29.8 million, will start production in two phases.
The first is to process existing stockpiles, which contain more than 7400 tonnes of graphite, through
the recently refurbished plant and surrounding areas, with sales to global markets.

Shipment of Valence's multiple graphite products will then start in the first quarter of this year. The
second phase production, to cost $34m, will increase to more than 50,000 tonnes of graphite a year
through the end of calendar 2014.

``We have a significant advantage from being the first producer (in Australia) . . . there has been major
constraints coming out of China in terms of their supply, so we have major customers coming back to
us saying they want certainty of supply from a stable location . . . which is what we can do,'' Mr Darby
said. ``Valence remains in active discussions with existing and new customers for the sale of its
graphite product lines. Many customers are approaching us regarding our quality flake graphite
products.''

Mr Darby said recommencing graphite production would also establish a new regional manufacturing
project in South Australia, which he said was an important step for a state that had suffered from the
announcement of a substantial loss of manufacturing jobs. SARAH-JANE TASKER

CO
IN

stgghz : Valence Industries Ltd.
i231 : Non-metallic Mineral Mining/Quarrying | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying

Page264of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

RE
PUB
AN

c1711 : Initial Public Offerings | c02 : Corporate Changes | c14 : Stock Listings | c17 : Funding/Capital |
c171 : Share Capital | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | saustr : South Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140106ea170001z

Page265of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.