Press Release: Bradley L. Hansen Named ZBB President and Chief Operating Officer

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Press Release: Bradley L. Hansen Named ZBB President and Chief Operating Officer

1,200 words
20 May 2014
23:30
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

Bradley L. Hansen Named ZBB President and Chief Operating Officer

Appointed to ZBB Board of Directors

MILWAUKEE, WI--(Marketwired - May 20, 2014) - ZBB Energy Corporation (NYSE MKT: ZBB), the
leading developer of intelligent, renewable energy power platforms, announced today that Brad Hansen
has been named ZBB's President and Chief Operating Officer and was also appointed to the Board of
Directors of ZBB Energy Corp. effective immediately. Mr. Hansen replaces Charles Stankiewicz who
previously served as Chief Operating Officer and as a director of the Company. Mr. Stankiewicz will
assist in the transition of his COO duties to Mr. Hansen.
Since December 2011, Mr. Hansen has served as the Chief Executive Officer of Anhui Meineng Energy,
our Chinese joint venture company, where he has led Meineng's organization and development. In
2010, Mr. Hansen founded and continues to serve as Managing Partner of PowerSav Inc., a boutique
private equity fund targeting China government policy supported markets. Mr. Hansen has extensive
expertise in the international renewable energy industry, having held various executive positions with
Applied Materials, Inc. from 1989 to 2010. While at AMAT, Mr. Hansen led global sales and site operation
organizations for its solar product line, an important growth driver of AMAT. Prior to this role, as
Corporate Vice President New Business and New Products Group Mr. Hansen directed the acquisition
and integration activities for AMAT's strategic Applied Films Corporationacquisition. Mr. Hansen also
held a number of key product development and operations roles at AMAT, including Vice President and
General Manager of the Chemical Mechanical Planarization Product Business Group. Mr. Hansen worked
as an Engineer and Program Manager for the Boeing Electronics Company Division of The Boeing
Company. He holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Manufacturing Engineering from Brigham Young
University and an MBA from Seattle University.
As an inducement to join the Company, Mr. Hansen was issued inducement stock options to purchase a
total of 360,000 shares of Company common stock with an exercise price of $1.72 per share, which was
the closing price of the Company's common stock on the NYSE MKT on May 19, 2014. The options will
vest and become exercisable in three equal annual installments. Mr. Hansen also will be issued an award
of inducement restricted stock units covering 360,000 shares of Company common stock that will vest
upon the achievement of certain performance vesting conditions.

Mr. Hansen will report to Eric Apfelbach, CEO of ZBB. Mr. Hansen's responsibilities include all
Manufacturing, R&D, Engineering, Human Resources and Sales and Marketing. Finance and Business
Development will report to Mr. Apfelbach. In addition, Mr. Hansen's responsibilities also include the
continued management of Meineng. This will bring the two companies closer together making more
efficient use of resources at both companies.
Said Brad Hansen, President and COO of ZBB, "I'm excited to be joining ZBB and having the opportunity
to help grow ZBB and Meineng together. The synergies align perfectly and will help to accelerate the
development of the next generation electronics and battery systems."

Said Eric Apfelbach, CEO of ZBB, "We are very pleased that Brad is joining our team at ZBB. His intimate
knowledge of our products, operational expertise, extensive customer knowledge in the renewable space,
as well as his proven leadership capability means he can provide immediate value to ZBB. I look forward

Page118of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.to working with Brad to accelerate the growth of both ZBB and Meineng and expand the synergies that
exist between the two companies."
About ZBB Energy Corporation
ZBB Energy Corporation (NYSE MKT: ZBB) designs, develops, and manufactures advanced energy
storage, power electronic systems, and engineered custom and semi-custom products targeted at the
growing global need for distributed renewable energy, energy efficiency, power quality, and grid
modernization. ZBB and its power electronics subsidiary, Tier Electronics, LLC, have developed a
portfolio of integrated power management platforms that combine advanced power and energy controls
plus energy storage to optimize renewable energy sources and conventional power inputs whether
connected to the grid or not. Tier Electronics participates in the energy efficiency markets through their
hybrid vehicle control systems, and power quality markets with their line of regulation solutions. Together,
these platforms solve a wide range of electrical system challenges in global markets for utility,
governmental, commercial, industrial and residential end customers. Founded in 1986, ZBB's platforms
ensure optimal efficiencies today, while offering the flexibility to adapt and scale to future requirements.
ZBB's corporate offices, engineering and development, and production facilities are located in
Menomonee Falls, WI, USA with a research facility also located in Perth, Western Australia. ZBB has a
joint venture with Meineng Energy, a provider of leading-edge energy storage systems and solutions to
the greater China market. For more information, visit: www.zbbenergy.com.

Safe Harbor Statements

Certain statements made in this press release contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of
Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended that are intended to be covered by the "safe harbor" created by those sections.
Forward-looking statements, which are based on certain assumptions and describe our future plans,
strategies and expectations, can generally be identified by the use of forward-looking terms such as
"believe," "expect," "may," "will," "should," "could," "seek," "intend," "plan," "estimate," "anticipate" or other
comparable terms. Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties which could
cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements, as a result of various
factors including those risks and uncertainties described in the Risk Factors and in Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations sections of our most recently
filed Annual Report on Form 10-K and our subsequently filed Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. We urge
you to consider those risks and uncertainties in evaluating our forward-looking statements. We caution
readers not to place undue reliance upon any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of
the date made. Except as otherwise required by the federal securities laws, we disclaim any obligation or
undertaking to publicly release any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement contained
herein (or elsewhere) to reflect any change in our expectations with regard thereto or any change in
events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.

20 May 2014 09:30 ET *Bradley L. Hansen Named ZBB Pres And Oper Chief >ZBB
20 May 2014 09:31 ET *ZBB Energy Names Hansen Pres, Oper Chief, Director, Effective Immediately
20 May 2014 09:31 ET *ZBB Energy's Hansen Replaces Charles Stankiewicz >ZBB
20 May 2014 09:32 ET *ZBB Energy's Hansen Was CEO Of Anhui Meineng Energy Venture
20 May 2014 09:32 ET *ZBB Energy Issues Hansen Inducement Stk Options To Buy 360,000 Shrs at
$1.72/Shr
20 May 2014 09:33 ET *ZBB Energy to Also Issue Hansen Inducement Restricted Stk Units Covering
360,000 Shrs

(MORE TO FOLLOW) Dow Jones Newswires (212-416-2800)

May 20, 2014 09:33 ET (13:33 GMT)

CO
IN

NS

zbbec : ZBB Energy Corporation
i342 : Electrical Components/Equipment | iindstrls : Industrial Goods | iindele : Industrial Electronics |
i3432 : Batteries
c411 : Management Moves | c41 : Management Issues | cboard : Board of Directors | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | cslmc : Senior Level Management | gpol : Domestic Politics | neqac : Equities
Asset Class News | npress : Press Releases | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International
Relations | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin :
FC&E Industry News Filter

Page119of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
AN

Document DJDN000020140520ea5k0036e

Page120of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.