Carbon Energy Limited - Successful Closure of Share Purchase Plan

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Carbon Energy Limited - Successful Closure of Share Purchase Plan

580 words
31 October 2014
ENP Newswire
ENPNEW
English
(c) 2014, Electronic News Publishing. All Rights Reserved.

Release date - 30102014
Carbon Energy (ASX: CNX) (OTCQX: CNXAY) advises that the Company’s Share Purchase Plan which
closed at 5pm Sydney time on 23 October 2014 received subscription applications totalling $2.5 million,
resulting in the issue of approximately 50 million new shares at the issue price of $0.05.

Commenting on the results, CEO and Managing Director, Morne Engelbrecht said ‘The Board is sincerely
grateful of the continued support shown by shareholders.

We are moving towards finalising the process of seeking Queensland Government approval to
commence the Blue Gum Gas Project, and closer to our vision of becoming a major gas producer. We
look forward to continuing to work with the State Government to make this important project a reality.’

Funds raised under the SPP will be applied to closing out the Government’s review process, advancing
the Blue Gum Gas Project including the pursuit of off-take and/or investment partners, further business
development, and general working capital.

The total funds raised were within the allowable range to be raised under the SPP and consequently,
valid applications from shareholders will not be subject to scale back. New shares under the SPP will be
allotted on Friday, 31 October 2014, and trading of the new shares is expected to commence on
Tuesday, 4 November 2014.

Dispatch of transaction confirmations and holding statements will be sent to shareholders on or around
Monday, 3 November 2014. All shares issued under the SPP rank equally with existing Carbon Energy
shares. No brokerage or transactions costs were payable under the SPP.
About Carbon Energy
Carbon Energy (ASX: CNX) (OTCQX: CNXAY) is building a Queensland gas business. The Company is
committed to providing Australian industrial gas users with an affordable and secure source of high
quality gas, as gas prices continue to rise with increased overseas demand.
Carbon Energy is developing a new Queensland-based energy portfolio. Subject to government
approvals, the Company is currently developing its first commercial project, the Blue Gum Gas Project,
near Dalby in Queensland. This plant will supply 25PJ of natural gas per annum and is located within
easy access to markets, and close to existing infrastructure. Additionally, Carbon Energy has the
potential to supply the growing overseas markets.
A key competitive advantage for Carbon Energy has been the development of its unique keyseam
technology. This proven and highly controlled technology enables access to productive gas resources
that were previously considered too deep or uneconomic.

keyseam maximises resource efficiency, while minimising surface disturbance and preserving
groundwater quality. Originally developed by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research
Organisation (CSIRO) it has been proven through six years of field trials.
Alongside its local operations, Carbon Energy works with international partners to unlock new energy
resources offshore. The Company delivers end-to-end services from initial project assessment through to

Page218of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.commercial project development, operations, site decommissioning and rehabilitation. It also has an
established project in Inner Mongolia, China.
Carbon Energy is headquartered in Brisbane, Australia, is listed on the Australian Securities Exchange
(ASX) as CNX and is quoted on the OTCQX International Exchange as CNXAY in the United States.

Contact:
Carbon Energy Limited Level 9, 301 Coronation Drive Milton QLD 4064 Australia PO Box 2118,
Toowong DC QLD 4066 Australia Tel: + 61 (0) 7 3156 7777 Fax: + 61 (0) 7 3156 7776
www.carbonenergy.com.au

[Editorial queries for this story should be sent to newswire@enpublishing.co.uk]

CO mteksr : Carbon Energy Limited
IN
NS
RE

i1 : Energy
npress : Press Releases | ncat : Content Types
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South
Wales

PUB Electronic News Publishing Ltd.
AN

Document ENPNEW0020141031eaav000jh

Page219of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.