ERM Power watches as AGL prepares MacGen move

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Market Wrap - Street Talk
ERM Power watches as AGL prepares MacGen move

Edited by Sarah Thompson, Anthony Macdonald and Gretchen Friemann
429 words
24 March 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
18
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

There has been movement at long last on the $1.5 billionMacquarie Generation stalemate, with AGL
Energy set to decide whether to take the competition regulator to court in pursuit of NSW's largest
power generation company. It is understood AGL has told NSW Treasurer Mike Baird it will progress
the stalemate this week, with most factors pointing to a legal challenge to the Australian Competition
and Consumer Commission's ruling.

While Baird has anointed AGL as the preferred bidder for MacGen, AGL has been feeling some
pressure as underbidder ERM Power refuses to give up hope. As reported by Street Talk on the
Financial Review Sunday program, ERM has not given up hope of snatching MacGen and has been
looking for a way to bump its offer closer to AGL's $1.505 billion mark.

AGL has exclusive rights to talk with the NSW government, but there is nothing stopping ERM from
lobbing an unsolicited offer. If ERM could get to $1.5 billion, it would be tempting for Baird to take the
cash and forgo uncertainty around AGL's bid.
ERM has had a month to rethink its offer and knows AGL would be getting a fair deal at $1.5 billion. It
likes MacGen's Bayswater and Liddell power stations, which are the two lowest-cost generators in the
state.

ERM's problem remains funding. It has investment bank UBS at hand and lined up a combination of
debt and equity for its initial bid. It would need a hefty equity raising to bid higher and hedge funds
are watching closely.

Baird has consistently said he would prefer to hold on to MacGen rather than sell below its retention
value, believed to be close to $1.5 billion.
Also on Baird's plate this week is the state's sub-$100 million portfolio of renewable energy plants,
Green State Power. Baird is expecting final offers on Monday, with parties able to bid for parts or all of
the wind and hydro portfolio. Infigen Energy is believed to be among those kicking tyres on the
assets, along with Chinese buyers.
Green State was set up in June to operate the assets, which were previously held by Eraring Energy
(now owned by Origin Energy). Assets include the Hume, Burrinjuck and Keepit hydro generators, the
Blayney wind farm, and Green State's interest in the Crookwell wind farm. The generators had a
combined output of 105 megawatts.

CO

IN
NS

agkega : AGL Energy Limited | macgen : Macquarie Generation | auccc : Australian Competition and
Consumer Commission
i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i16101 : Electric Power Generation | ieutil : Electric Utilities | iutil : Utilities
c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter

Page41of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140323ea3o0000v

Page42of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.