Citic still crucial to mainland China reforms

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Citic still crucial to mainland China reforms

Eric Ng eric.mpng@scmp.com
845 words
20 October 2014
scmp.com
SCMCOM
English
(c) 2014 scmp.com. All rights reserved.

Citic has not seen its role as the central government's first and one of the most important overseas
investment vehicles diminish, despite huge losses from foreign exchange bets and a much-delayed
and over-budgeted Australian iron ore project.

If anything, its importance has been elevated by what was billed by chairman Chang Zhenming as a
landmark deal completed in late August. It was the largest asset injection by a red chip - a Hong
Kong-registered firm holding mainland state-owned assets.

The firm, which went public in Hong Kong 24 years ago through a reverse takeover deal, was a
"window company" for Beijing, with a mission to tap overseas capital markets to fund the
development of the mainland economy and the reform of the businesses which were previously run
inefficiently under state planning.

It has adopted a conglomerate model of development, dipping into a wide array of businesses both
in Hong Kong and on the mainland, spanning property, aviation, power generation,
telecommunications, vehicle and consumer goods trading and specialised steel production.
In late 2007, it announced a venture into a greenfield iron ore mining project in Western Australia
state, in a diversification that was thought to be lucrative with lofty iron ore prices at the time, which
would also help mainland steel mills break the supply stranglehold of Australian mining giants BHP
Billiton and Rio Tinto.
But the project's budget has ballooned from US$1.75 billion in 2007 to more than US$10 billion
due to surging costs of material, labour and management, the rising Australian dollar, expanded
project scope and misjudgment of the amount of mainland workers its contractor Metallurgical Corp
of China would be allowed to deploy in the country.

To hedge its foreign exchange risk, Citic entered into hedging contracts, but their complex and
high-risk nature saw its exposure balloon from A$500 million to A$9 billion as the Australian
currency sank amid the global financial crisis in 2008, without a cap.
This resulted in an unrealised loss of HK$15.5 billion, which drew criticism after the company
delayed the announcement on those losses by six weeks.
By selling 60 per cent of its high-risk foreign exchange exposure to its parent for HK$9.3 billion in
late 2008 and through a recent 227 billion yuan acquisition deal with its parent Citic Group, it has
capped the loss and substantially diluted the troubled iron ore project's importance in its financial
statements.

For its parent, by assuming the risky exposure at a time when the Australian dollar was trading
close to its lowest in the past decade, it has likely reaped substantial gains, with the currency rising
from the agreed price of 70 US cents to as much as above parity against the greenback.

This year, Chang has taken advantage of Beijing's call for state enterprises to deepen their reform
by listing more of their assets on stock markets and by co-investing with private investors, so that

Page55of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.they are subject to more external scrutiny and governance and become more market-oriented in
their operation.
After the mega acquisition deal, some 99 per cent of Citic Group's assets are owned by Citic, but
its assets' composition saw a dramatic change.
Before the deal, iron ore mining and special steel manufacturing accounted for 83 per cent of
Citic's net assets, and recorded a combined net loss of HK$87 million in this year's first half.

After its completion, financial services - mainly held by listed Citic Bank and Citic Securities -
account for about 75 per cent of Citic's assets and 79 per cent of its earnings, according to a Citi
research report.
Iron ore mining used to account for 39 per cent of its assets and threatened the firm's solvency.
Now it represents around 2 per cent of its asset value, it said.

Despite Citic's drastic makeover, some analysts are not convinced it represents a good investment.

"We are of the view that investors lack a compelling reason to invest in Citic … investors would be
better off investing in Citic's listed subsidiaries directly or other listed companies to gain direct
exposure to the industries they prefer," Citi's analysts said in a research report on September 1.
They said the company was trading at an 8 per cent discount to their estimated net asset value for
next year, compared to a 31 per cent average in other conglomerates.

"Some investors view Citic as the pilot for state enterprise reform and believe it will be an active
participant - hopefully value could be unlocked via spin-offs and net asset value could grow through
acquisitions," the report said. "However, given Citic's huge market capitalisation, it will be difficult to
find sizeable, value-enhancing transactions."

Given 60 per cent of Citic's estimated net asset value is already separately listed, it will see limited
valuation appreciation if its unlisted assets are spun off, they added.

citic : CITIC Group
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv :
Investing/Securities
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
South China Morning Post Publishers Limited
Document SCMCOM0020141020eaak00004

CO
IN

RE

PUB
AN

Page56of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.