Seven Group swoops on Nexus

Seven Group swoops on Nexus

The Australian

HD
CR
WC 544 words
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

31 March 2014
23:00
theAustralian.com.au
NLAUSW
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

KERRY Stokes-controlled mining and media empire Seven Group has swooped on troubled Nexus
Energy.
A merger agreement will see Seven commit $400 million over several years as part of a complex
proposal that offers Nexus shareholders 2c a share.

TD

The merger, which will require approval from 75 per cent of Nexus shareholders, marks Seven chief
operating officer Ryan Stokes’s first major deal since being elevated to the role for the group in August
2012.

Mr Stokes worked closely with chief financial officer Richard Richards.

The Nexus board, which is at present without a chairman, has unanimously recommended the offer as the
company runs out of cash and tries to bring its only cash-generating asset back into production following
an electrical fault.
Seven’s offer represents a sharp discount to the company’s last trade of 5.9c before the stock was put in
a trading suspension. Nexus is under pressure from a crippling debt burden, which will be relieved by an
immediate $40 million bridging loan from Seven to meet near-term funding commitments.

“As we have stated previously, our strong balance sheet provides us with the ability to act on investment
opportunities in appropriate areas that diversify and broaden our portfolio, including the gas and energy
sector,” said Kerry Stokes, executive chairman of Seven Group.
“We believe the proposed acquisition of Nexus Energy is an excellent investment, provided there is an
immediate injection of the agreed major capital in the next several weeks.”
The conglomerate, which owns stakes in Seven West Media and mining services company WesTrac,
flagged its intention to expand into other sectors at last year’s annual meeting.

The group has been running the ruler over assets in the agribusiness, water, health and wealth
management sectors, but executives believe the multiples in some areas are fully valued.

The Nexus deal, which draws on Seven Group chief executive Don Voelte’s career in the petroleum
industry, enables Seven to pursue an ongoing agenda of identifying opportunities during a down cycle in
the mining sector.

In February, Mr Voelte resigned suddenly from the Melbourne-based Nexus because of a potential
conflict of interest.
Seven insiders said the crown jewel asset in Nexus’s portfolio was a stake in the Shell-operated Crux
gasfield in Western Australia’s Browse Basin.
The Stokes camp believes China and the Asia region will become more reliant on liquefied natural gas to
supply their fast- growing economies, with the proximity of a world-class mining field to these markets
placing the asset in an optimal position.

Page78of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Associates of Mr Stokes also believe in the fundamentals of the energy sector, and the move will enable
the group to create a new revenue stream beyond the core drivers in mining and media, both of which
have been under pressure in recent years.

Mr Stokes was adamant Australia would play a big role in the Asia region as a supplier of the world’s
energy needs.

Mr Stokes, who controls 67 per cent of Seven’s voting stock, is a passionate champion of Australian
expertise in the mining industries, and yesterday talked up the merits of Nexus remaining in “Australian
hands”.

Shares in Seven Group gained 3c to $8.26.

entity : Nexus Energy Ltd
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas
gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

CO
IN
NS
RE
PUB News Ltd.
AN

Document NLAUSW0020140331ea3v000gv

Page79of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.