REAL PEOPLE OF THE GC: TIM MCCORMICK

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Lifestyle
REAL PEOPLE OF THE GC: TIM MCCORMICK

AS TOLD TO ALICE GORMAN
493 words
20 December 2014
Gold Coast Bulletin
GCBULL
GoldCoastEye
6
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

AFTER A LONG WORKING CAREER IN THE COUNTRY, TIM MCCORMICK IS ENJOYING THE
CHANCE TO GIVE BACK
I had a business in Taree, manufacturing farm machinery and tractor sales. We had a couple of
investment apartments up here on the Gold Coast and when the tenants moved out of one we
decided we’d move up here to have a trial of Coast life.

We never went back. We love the temperate climate, it doesn’t get too cold or too hot. We live on the
Broadwater so we get the breezes.
We used to bring the family up here for holidays every couple of years. When I retired to the Gold
Coast I joined the Southport Lions Club. I’d never been in the Lions before, having a business I just
didn’t have time. Running a business was full on so it’s my choice to do the volunteering now. It’s also
a great social meeting place.

We’re here volunteering on the Christmas present wrapping stand at Harbour Town, raising money for
children’s cancer research.

This is my first time doing present wrapping. There was a young girl here before us, she was excellent.
She gave me some tips but I think I need more practice.
I was raised in Sydney and after school did an apprenticeship. After that I worked for the company
that invented the rotary hoe. When they decided to close down Australian manufacturing myself and
another gentleman decided we’d start our own business in Taree, which has a strong dairy industry.
The first five years were a bit of a nightmare, finding time to design equipment, purchase materials
and run the business.

Then we went into retail of tractors so I had to learn about tractors. We had Massey Ferguson, Ford
and Lamborghini.
We ran the business for 20 years when the offer came for someone to buy the business.

For the first three to four years of retirement it was very difficult. I’d come from a small acreage to
apartment living in a high-rise. That was the most difficult part of it.
But I joined the body corporate committee and I’m involved with the Lion’s Haven Aged Care Facility
at Hope Island. It helps keep my brain active.

We do a fair bit of travelling too. The best part of living in a high-rise is we can just lock the apartment
up and go. There’s no lawns to mow, no gardens to tend. It frees us up to travel.

Page101of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.We’re just back from Norfolk Island for the inaugural food festival. We travelled with the chef
Dominique Rizzo. We had a tremendous time, the food was terrific.
We’ll do China next year and last year we did France and England.The Christmas before we cruised
from Amsterdam to Prague. We get around.

NS
RE
PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document GCBULL0020141219eack0005y

Page102of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.