Singapore’s Hour Glass seizes prime CBD site

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

PrimeSpace
Singapore’s Hour Glass seizes prime CBD site

GREG BROWN
257 words
31 October 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
25
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

RETAIL: Singapore-listed luxury watch retailer The Hour Glass has emerged as the buyer of a
prominent retail building on the corner of Pitt and Market streets in the Sydney CBD.
The property at 192 Pitt Street is opposite Pitt Street Mall and Westfield Sydney and was
purchased for $32.8 million.

The Hour Glass director Michael Tay said the building was in one of the world’s fastest-growing
luxury retail corridors.

“We are excited by the prospects, the heritage status of the building offers and feel extremely
privileged to be the new owner of this property,” Mr Tay said.
While the group will initially hold the building as an investment, it is believed it eventually wants to
open its own store there. The deal was brokered by Knight Frank and Colliers International.

Knight Frank senior director Dominic Ong said the building could be turned over entirely to retailing in
the future with one store across its six levels.
“The vertical retail concept is very popular in Asia, in Japan and Hong Kong where land is very
limited in the prime retail area,” Mr Ong said.
There has been more action in Sydney from Singaporean players. The listed hotel arm of Far East
Organisation announced it would join forces with Toga to develop a mixed-use project on the site on
the waterfront in Balmain.The Australian reported in August that Toga had acquired the property for
$58m, in a deal handled by Knight Frank.

CO
IN
NS
RE

PUB
AN

hourgl : The Hour Glass Limited
i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i654 : Specialty Stores | i6540028 : Jewelry Stores | iretail : Retail
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | singp : Singapore | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South Wales | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141030eaav00021

Page250of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.