DATAROOM

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
DATAROOM

EDITED BY BRIDGET CARTER
1,125 words
7 November 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
20
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

AMP, John Laing in hunt for hospital AMP and Britain’s John Laing have been named among the four
groups short-listed to buy the Royal North Shore Hospital, likely to sell for up to $1 billion, according
to sources.

The groups have made it through to the second round of the bidding process, along with two other
unnamed contenders.

However, Hong Kong-based Cheung Kong Infrastructure is believed to have been among those that
have been left off the list.

AMP has been favoured to win the asset from the start of the process, deterring some advisers to
enter the frame on the basis that they believed the financial giant would be tough to beat.

It is thought that AMP could be partnering with a group to buy the hospital that is being sold by Royal
Bank of Scotland through advisers Goldman Sachs.

Last year, AMP purchased a portfolio of schools from RBS in Melbourne, triggering speculation it
would win the latest process.

RBS was understood to have received indicative bids for the hospital from CKI, Queensland
Investment Corporation, InfraRed, Palisade Investment Partners, Capella Capital and John Laing. But
it is understood that some of the named bidders could be working in concert.

On offer is RBS’s Infrashore, which effectively owns the asset. It has the contract through to 2036 to
finance, design and redevelop the hospital through a public-private partnership.

Estia IPO worries AGED-CARE provider Estia, which has been earmarked for a float worth up to $1.2
billion, may deter some investors due to the fact that it has lower occupancy rates than its rivals,
sources said.
The business owned by Quadrant Private Equity, is being taken to the market before Christmas by
advisers Deutsche, Morgan Stanley and UBS, who are presenting the IPO to investors this week.

Morgan Stanley analysts have valued the business at between $1.05bn and $1.19bn. It is understood
that Estia’s current occupancy levels are 90 per cent, which some say are almost 5 per cent less than
its listed rivals Regis and Japara Healthcare.

Some have disagreed with sources close to Estia who have argued that its product is superior, given
that it had a higher proportion of single rooms with ensuites and was more profitable on a per-bed
basis.

There is also the suggestion that the lower occupancy translated into stronger earnings upside for the
business.

Page89of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Apache assets hunt APACHE Energy’s impending third-quarter results call last night was driving
anticipation that news about its Australian asset sales could be nigh.

The months-long process by Apache to find a new home for its West Australian domestic gas
business and its stake in the under-construction Wheatstone LNG project — as well as its stake in
the Kitimat LNG project in Canada — has drawn plenty of interest from parties in that neck of the
woods.

The cashed-up, project-hungry Woodside Petroleum has been interested from the outset in the
Kitimat stake, but is also said to be prepared to make an offer on Wheatstone if Apache is
determined to sell the assets together.
Pavilion Energy, wholly owned by the Singapore government’s investment vehicle Temasek, is also
said to still be in the hunt.

At least two Australian players are thought to have taken a look at Apache’s domestic gas business.
Kerry Stokes’s Seven Group is said to have teamed up with private equity group KKR with an eye to
making an offer, while Fortescue Metals Group is also in a consortium studying the assets.
APN spin-off concern SOME APN News & Media investors may be about to quash the company’s
plans to spin out its New Zealand assets as part of an initial public offering on the New Zealand and
Australian sharemarkets.

As APN released a 22-page presentation yesterday about its recently rebranded New Zealand
business NZME, investment firm Allan Gray, which holds a 19 per cent interest, raised concerns
about the company’s potential IPO plans, saying that it could not see how it was going to be a good
idea if a strong price was not achieved.
It argued the New Zealand business would be better off being retained, despite the company’s
debt-heavy position.

APN and its advisers for the NZME business, Forsyth Barr and First NZ Capital-Credit Suisse, are
fronting investors this week, testing appetite for a potential sharemarket float estimated to be worth
anywhere between $280 million and $490m.
The company says it has not yet committed to any IPO plans. However, given APN wrote down the
value of its New Zealand mastheads yesterday by $54m, some say the chances of securing a strong
price for the assets are limited.

According to APN’s presentation, NZME’s earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation
of $74.6m this year and $70.8m the following year, also leaves some questioning about how the
business will achieve a high price.

Within NZME’s portfolio of print, digital and radio assets are New Zealand’s largest newspaper, The
New Zealand Herald, and No 1 radio station NewstalkZB.
As well, the company hopes to generate earnings upside by introducing a paywall for its digital
content.

It is understood that APN was hoping to secure about seven times earnings for the business, but
others say a multiple of about four times is more appropriate.
Montara sell-off stalled IT is believed the sales process for the $1.5 billion Montara oilfield off the
coast of northwest Australia has stalled, with the asset still in the hands of advisory firmJPMorgan,
but no buyer yet found.

The vendor, PTTEP, owned by the Thai government, is understood to have had bullish price
aspirations for Montara and also its Cash and Maple asset, which was also previously for sale for
about $500 million. Montara has been on the market since March.

Groups such as KKR and Santos are believed to have looked at the asset, which hit peak production
this year, and sources said parties were interested in buying just the oil produced, but not the asset
itself. It comes as buyers in the energy sector are also expected to soon focus their attention on the
private equity-owned Alinta Energy, which is up for sale through investment bank Lazard.

Alinta is being sold by TPG Capital, thought to be worth close to $4.5bn, and was previously a
distressed asset.

Page90of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Some say that the logical buyers for the business are AGL Energy and Origin Energy, and advisers
may have to split the company’s east and west coast assets and sell them separately to avoid
competition issues with prospective buyers.

carterb@theaustralia.com.au

CO

IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

chkinf : Cheung Kong Infrastructure Holdings Ltd | austmp : AMP Ltd | hutwam : Hutchison Whampoa
Limited
i502 : Heavy Construction | i82 : Insurance | i82002 : Life Insurance | iconst : Construction | icre : Real
Estate/Construction | ifinal : Financial Services
cspin : Spin-offs | c02 : Corporate Changes | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio
: Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | cncc : New Companies Creation | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141106eab70005g

Page91of247©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.