Yancoal faces rebellion by shareholders

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Yancoal faces rebellion by shareholders

Amanda Saunders Matthew Stevens
570 words
12 November 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
23
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Resources - Minority investors angry
Furious minority shareholders in Chinese-controlled Yancoal claim they were approached by
management over a buyout just weeks before the Australian-listed coalminer announced a dilutive
$US2.3 billion debt-for-equity swap on Monday.

After unveiling the refinancing deal, Yancoal boss Reinhold Schmidt denied it was a new attempt at
privatisation by controlling shareholder Yanzhou Coal, and said privatisation was not on the table.

But a senior investor in Yancoal has told Fairfax Media that Yancoal's management had made half a
dozen informal offers to buy out its holding at about 30 cents in the past six months - most recently in
mid-October. The offers would have seen the largest minority shareholder, Noble Group, remain on the
register.

Yancoal shares opened at $1.53 on their ASX debut in mid-2012, and currently languish at about 16
cents.
The shareholder claims the debt-for-equity swap, using a subordinated capital notes offer, is a stealthy
privatisation grab by Chinese coal giant Yanzhou Coal, after informal takeover offers were rejected.

Yancoal's head of investor relations James Rickards said Yancoal had been in talks about "a potential
liquidity event for minority shareholders" as part of an independent board committee review.

"Preliminary informal conceptual soundings were held with a number of shareholders to test the
feasibility of this option, however, no offer was ever tabled as this option was not feasible," he said.

Yancoal is one of the ASX's most illiquid stocks, with Yanzhou's monstrous holding accounting for 78
per cent, and Asian commodities trader Noble Group with 13.2 per cent. The remaining 8.8 per cent is
split between four minority shareholders.
In a recapitalisation revealed on Monday, Yanzhou will take up $US1.8 billion of a $US2.3 billion
subordinated capital notes offer in Yancoal to repay a $US1.8 billion loan to itself. The notes will be
treated as equity, convertible at 10c a share. Yancoal will attempt to tap the rest of its register for the
$US500 million balance. Yanzhou will also extend a fresh $US1.4 billion loan to the troubled miner.

Mr Rickards said the deal was "an offer in the interests of strengthening the balance sheet, not
privatising Yancoal - to assert otherwise is incorrect and misinformed".
The minority shareholder says the debt-for-equity swap is a "massive expropriation" in which Yancoal
would refinance itself unnecessarily at a higher rate, adding about $50 million a year to interest
repayments - which in the main would go to Yanzhou Coal.

Page55of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.There was no justification for the timing of the refinancing, when no significant debt is due for two and a
half years, he said.

But Mr Rickards said: "The status quo is not sustainable in light of our gearing levels and covenant
position. We are under growing pressure from lenders to proactively take steps to reduce our debt,
address our covenant position and establish a more sustainable capital structure.
"Delaying recapitalisation of the company until the debt is due and payable or a default has occurred
would clearly not be in the interests of the company."

The aggrieved shareholder is taking legal advice on his options, and will make a complaint to the
company, while also considering an application to the Takeovers Panel. He will also ask independent
directors why they backed the deal.

CO

IN
RE
PUB
AN

yaptyl : Yancoal Australia Limited | yankua : Yankuang (Group) Corp | ynzmn : Yanzhou Coal Mining
Co Ltd
i112 : Coal Mining Support Activities | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020141111eabc0003o

Page56of286©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.