Australia may tighten rules for foreign home-buyers

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

PROPERTY
Australia may tighten rules for foreign home-buyers

Florence Chong
580 words
28 November 2014
TODAY (Singapore)
TDAYSG
APM
50
English
(c) 2014. MediaCorp Press Ltd.

SYDNEY — Foreign investors may soon need to cough up an application fee of up to A$1,500
(S$1,670) when buying an Australian home, while those who breach ownership regulations would forfeit
their capital gains and face civil penalties under proposals to tighten rules on foreign purchases
unveiled yesterday following a government-backed inquiry.

Although the inquiry is not focused on investors from any particular country, cash-rich buyers from
China have been blamed by locals for ramping up home prices in Australia’s major cities. The move
may also affect Singaporean buyers — one in five of those who invest in overseas property hold
Australian residential real estate — as well as Singapore-based developers, which have been stepping
up their investments Down Under.

The parliamentary inquiry into foreign investment in residential real estate, chaired by ruling Liberal
Party lawmaker Kelly O’Dwyer, began in May this year in the wake of widespread community concerns
that foreigners, mostly Chinese nationals, were pushing up house and apartment prices, particularly in
Melbourne and Sydney.
It found that rules on foreign purchases, which limit overseas non-citizens to buying newly-built homes
instead of established properties, were not being enforced. Ms O’Dwyer said there was a systems failure
within the Foreign Investment Review Board (FIRB), with the regulator failing to penalise or prosecute a
single foreign investor since 2008.

That led the committee to make 12 recommendations, including the collection of a fee from foreign
property investors to fund the FIRB investigation and enforcement operations.

The Parliamentary Budget Office said that an A$1,500 fee would raise about A$158.7 million over four
years.

Among the other recommendations, penalties would also be imposed on third parties — such as
lawyers, real estate agents and mortgage brokers — who knowingly assist a foreign investor to breach
the rules. Any capital gains from the sale of an illegally held property would be forfeited to the
government.

The committee also called for a national register of land title transfers that records the citizenship and
residency status of all home buyers, and better coordination between immigration authorities and the
FIRB.

Developers will need a certificate to sell homes off-the-plan overseas and they must market the project
in Australia for the same period of time.

“Serious Singaporean investors will not be put off by the application fee, which is quite small compared
to the typical A$500,000-and-above purchase. They may even be happy knowing it contributes to better
policing of the rules, as Singaporeans are typically rule-abiding,” said Mr Ku Swee Yong, chief executive
of property agency Century 21 in Singapore.

Page31of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Industry observers, including Mr Ku, said that even when fully implemented, the tighter rules will still be
less onerous for foreign buyers compared with the additional buyers’ stamp duties for investors in
Singapore. The impact of the tightened rule regime is expected to be more significant on developers
than on buyers, they said.
Developers routinely launch their new Australian projects in Singapore, China, Hong Kong and
Malaysia.

Mr Ku said: “Developers targeting Asian buyers have been able to secure high prices for part of the
development when marketing Aussie homes overseas and using these as a marker to market the rest of
the project. To have to market the same property in Australia for the same period will tend to keep
prices in check.” Florence Chong with AGENCIES

irreal : Residential Real Estate | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ireest :
Real Estate
ereal : Real Estate Markets | c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News |
e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
singp : Singapore | austr : Australia | china : China | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia
| ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging
Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | nswals : New South Wales |
seasiaz : Southeast Asia
Property

IN

NS

RE

IPD
PUB MediaCorp Press Ltd
AN

Document TDAYSG0020141127eabs00012

Page32of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.