MMG to head Las Bambas copper mine in Peru

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
MMG to head Las Bambas copper mine in Peru

BARRY FITZGERALD, MINING
650 words
22 July 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
20
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

INTERNATIONAL competition for resources investment dollars means Australia needs to move
promptly to remove the lingering mining tax, as well as take measures to stop the decade-long
deterioration in productivity.

The message is from Andrew Michelmore, chairman of the Minerals Council of Australia and chief
executive of MMG, the Melbourne-based but Chinese-owned miner that received shareholder approval
yesterday to spearhead the consortium acquiring the Las Bambas copper project in Peru for $US5.85
billion ($6.2bn) from Glencore Xstrata.

The Abbott government’s plan to repeal the Rudd government’s mining tax and its associated $10bn in
spending measures was frustrated in the Senate last week, with Palmer United Party senators joining
Labor and the Greens to support amendments to keep the spending measures in place.
The latest instalment from the iron ore and coal miners subject to the tax was due yesterday, and it will
take until the next sitting in August — and support from PUP senators for the attached spending
measures to be abandoned — for the mining tax to be killed off.
Mr Michelmore said that although the mining tax had failed to raise anywhere near what the Rudd
government had predicted ($170 million last year compared with a forecast $3.5bn), getting rid of it
promptly would send the right message to investors.
He said that along with the repealed $7bn carbon tax, the mining tax had created a perception in the
minds of international investors of instability in Australia’s sovereign risk profile.
“The mining tax is not significant in terms of the dollars raised. But it is significant in terms of the
uncertainty that it creates for investment communities in countries with the dollars to invest in Australia,’’
Mr Michelmore said.
“So by just removing the mining tax out of the discussions signals we are back into a stable sovereign
risk regime. That is the position that we need to get to.’’ Mr Michelmore also called for action on
productivity improvement. “Productivity is the next thing that works against us. The Aussie dollar doesn’t
help, but we can’t do anything about that. But we have lost productivity over the last decade.’’ He was
speaking in Hong Kong, where MMG is listed, after shareholders approved MMG’s participation in the
Las Bambas acquisition (62.5 per cent interest), and a life-of-mine deal under which MMG’s 73.6 per
cent shareholder, China Minmetals, will buy 57 per cent of the new mine’s production of copper
concentrate .
The mine is more than 60 per cent complete and is expected to produce its copper at a super
competitive price of US80c a pound, from the second half of next year, based on Glencore’s timetable
which has yet to be confirmed by MMG.

Mr Michelmore said that first production from Las Bambas should be sweetly timed, given an
expectation that the supply-demand balance in the copper market should tighten by 2016. A key

Page165of234©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.emerging factor is the world’s biggest producer, Chile, struggling to maintain production in the next five
years.

And many new mines being developed in South America have quality issues with their arsenic levels,
forcing them to seek out low arsenic concentrates with which to blend their material, such as that which
Las Bambas will produce.

The growth to come from the Las Bambas project has prompted suggestions MMG has outgrown its
home market listing in Hong Kong and that it needs to list on the main mining markets of London, New
York and/or Australia.“It is definitely in our thought processes,’’ Mr Michelmore said. “But that is down
the track, and it is not our focus at the moment. We’ve got to get Las Bambas up and running.’’ He
confirmed that MMG would continue to be based in Melbourne.

CO

IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

march : Glencore PLC | mncasr : Minerals Council of Australia | orieml : MMG Limited | cminmc : China
Minmetals Corporation | imreht : Inner Mongolia Baotou Steel Rare-Earth (Group) Hi-Tech Co Ltd |
lawspr : Minmetals Land Limited
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2114 : Copper Ore/Nickel Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources |
imet : Mining/Quarrying | i22 : Primary Metals | i224 : Non-ferrous Metals | i2245 : Aluminum | i8396 :
Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | peru : Peru | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | devgcoz : Emerging
Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | lamz : Latin America | samz : South America
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140721ea7m0001e

Page166of234©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.