Shudder from the udder as milk price sours

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

TheNation
Shudder from the udder as milk price sours

SUE NEALES, RURAL REPORTER
814 words
15 October 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
7
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Western Victoria dairy farmer Ben Bennett sighs when he sits at his kitchen table to talk about the state
of the industry.

A New Zealander who came to Pomborneit, west of Colac, nine years ago, lured by cheaper land than
was available back home, Mr Bennett admits to being stunned by the rollercoaster ride the $13 billion
Australian dairy industry seems to be perpetually experiencing.

Troubles returned last week, when Chinese orders for dairy products were abruptly reduced. World
dairy prices have crashed more than 40 per cent in the past two months and the world’s biggest milk
exporter, New Zealand’s Fonterra, has cut its forecast for prices to be paid to farmers to 37 per cent
below last year’s record high. And Australian farmers like Mr Bennett are bracing for a sudden drop in
local milk prices after the best year in a decade. “We know this industry waxes and wanes with the
seasons, and we all begrudgingly accept that, but a step down in milk prices is the last thing we need,”
he said. “People are nervous because they are only just getting back on their feet.
“All the talk this season was for 45c-50c a litre for our milk after the terrible prices (of 35c) two years
ago, but farmers are getting paid a lot less than that now and promises of later season price rises are
already being retracted.” Australia’s biggest milk processor, Murray Goulburn, warned this month it
might not be able to stick to its commitment to pay its suppliers an average price of $6 per kilo of milk
solids — equivalent to 45c a litre — this year if global markets continued to fall.

Managing director Gary Helou said any reduction in promised prices would be a “last resort” and that at
least the falling Australian dollar would help hold the farmgate price of milk up against other gloomy
global price trends. “We are going … to defend that $6 price (but) it will be a difficult task,” Mr Helou
said. He also urged farmers to be “cautious” when working out farm budgets or making investment
decisions based on the promise of high milk prices.
Dairy Australia director John McKillop yesterday said that despite the current “market volatility”, the
long-term outlook for the Australian dairy industry remained compelling.

He said global trends, particularly the Asian food boom, were aligning to produce an exciting future for
the industry and that the key need now was to boost Australia’s annual milk production from its current
depressed level of 9.2 billion litres, 16 per cent down on its 2002 peak of 11 billion litres.
“We must do more, we must increase milk production on our farms,’’ he said. “We should look for 12
billion litres annual milk volume as a short-term objective and targeting a desire for 15 billion litres.
We can achieve that but it will need more than $10bn invested on farm.” But Michael Harvey, a senior
dairy analyst with agricultural lender Rabobank, warned that without improved profitability, the dairy
industry was unlikely to see the production growth required to make inroads into growing export
markets.
He said that with just 2 per cent growth in on-farm milk production predicted for this year, it would take
a “fundamental shift” in milk supply growth to meet the sector’s ambitions to lift production to 15 billion
litres by 2020.

Page210of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“For the majority of the farm sector, 2013-14 was a profitable season on the back of record high
farm-gate milk prices that provided the opportunity for balance sheets to be restored, debts to be
serviced, bank debt to be reduced and equity levels rebuilt,” Mr Harvey said.
“Now Australia’s large retailers are forming direct supply relationships with milk producers, the benefits
of stronger collaboration exist to provide farmer producers with more certainty through annual milk
pricing and longer contractual terms.” Mr Bennett is one farmer who, after nine years supplying Murray
Goulburn with 1.5 million litres each year, switched to selling his milk to the Bulla company, because
it guaranteed increased revenue and a stable price across all months of the year, improving his annual
milk cheque by $100,000.

“It’s having the certainty of a price that doesn’t vary across the seasons that will allow us to plan and
expand our (350-cow) herd to take advantage of growth opportunities and to live here for the long term,”
Mr Bennett said. “Too many people talk about this head-in-the-clouds euphoric stuff of every (person in
China) eating an ice cream every day, but there is no sense in dreaming if the bills don’t get paid. This
is a business and we are in this to make a profit.”Business P21

IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i413 : Dairy Products | i010010502 : Dairy Cattle Farming | i41 :
Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i0 : Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | i0100105 : Cattle Farming | icnp :
Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products | ilsfarm : Livestock Farming
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | reqrfb : Suggested Reading Food/Beverages/Tobacco | redit :
Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141014eaaf00026

Page211of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.