PetroChina circles Karoon's $300m-plus Poseidon stake

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Market Wrap - Street Talk
PetroChina circles Karoon's $300m-plus Poseidon stake

Edited by Sarah Thompson Anthony Mcdonald and Gretchen Friemann
433 words
29 May 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
26
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Chinese state-owned giant, PetroChina, may extend its grip on one of the largest gas finds off the
coast of Western Australia if it forges ahead with a potential acquisition of Karoon Gas's $300
million plus stake in the Poseidon field.
PetroChina, the listed arm of China National Petroleum Corp, already controls a 20 per cent stake
in the discovery, and is understood to be among a number of parties engaged in tentative
discussions about a deal.

A buyer will be confirmed within weeks with cash-strapped Karoon selling either a majority of its
holding, close to 30 per cent, or exiting entirely.
UBS and Morgan Stanley have been advising the company and speculation circulated earlier this
month about a prospective $200 million equity raise aimed at shoring up the balance sheet.
However, Poseidon has drawn the interest of a handful of major energy players, including
Perth-based Woodside, which is grappling with lacklustre growth in the wake of the abandoned
Leviathan investment.

Royal Dutch Shell has also cast an eye over the field, which sits north-east of the Browse gasfields
and was discovered by US heavyweight, ConocoPhillips, and Karoon back in 2009.

Shell holds 27 per cent of the Woodside-led Browse joint venture, in which PetroChina is also a
participant, although the company recently pledged to be more rigorous on capital spending.
Another contender for Poseidon is the Thai oil and gas giant PTT, which is offloading its $2 billion
Montara gas project and its Cash and Maple gasfields off the coast of Western Australia amid a
global trend among large players to pursue higher-growth prospects.

Yet PetroChina appears to have emerged as the strongest bidder.

A deal would likely entail approval from the Foreign Investment Review Board and ConocoPhillips
would need to opt not to exercise its pre-emptive rights over the asset.
PetroChina forked out over $270 million for one- third of the US major's stake and a play for
another 30-odd per cent would take its holding in Poseidon to over 50 per cent.
If the Chinese giant decides to cement its grip, this would underscore the country's energy
strategy is to own the source of its mounting oil and gas needs rather than assume an investment
role along the lines of the Japanese approach.

The likes of Mitsui seem content to hold minority slices in large-scale assets, enabling them to
monitor and oversee progress but absolving them of control.

Page108of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CO

IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

cnpngc : China National Petroleum Corp | karoon : Karoon Gas Australia Ltd | pechin : PetroChina
Company Limited
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i162 : Gas Utilities | iutil :
Utilities
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140528ea5t0002e

Page109of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.