Lost battle with Baosteel could see miner take $20m hit

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Lost battle with Baosteel could see miner take $20m hit

Sarah-Jane Tasker, takeovers
466 words
20 June 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
22
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

PERTH-based mining services company Mineral Resources could be forced to take close to a $20
million hit on its new investment in Aquila Resources after losing the takeover battle to China’s
Baosteel.
Mineral Resources, which is also a processing company, lost its short-lived fight to control Aquila
Resources after the target backed a $1.4 billion cash offer from Baosteel over a scrip deal with
Mineral Resources.

The company had launched its rival offer on Monday after it had moved on to Aquila’s share registry
last week, purchasing a 12 per cent stake at $3.75 a share.

Baosteel, with joint bidder Aurizon, last month offered $3.40-a-share for Aquila in an attempt to win
control of its Australian iron ore and coal projects.

Following Mineral Resources’s emergence onto Aquila’s share registry, Baosteel announced on Friday
it would not increase its offer above $3.40.

Mineral Resources is now left with the choice of taking a loss on its almost $200m investment or
remain a minority shareholder in a company controlled by China.

Macquarie analysts said the most likely outcome would be for Mineral Resources to sell into the bid
and take a loss of around $20m on its investment.

“Whilst the financial loss is not material to Mineral Resources, the loss of reputation is potentially more
serious,” the investment bank said.
State-owned Baosteel, which has a 20 per cent stake in Aquila, had warned last week that if its offer
did not succeed it could exit the company.

Executives also refused to meet with Mineral Resources to discuss its rival’s development plans for
Aquila’s West Pilbara iron ore project. It also threatened that China would not play a role in the project
in the future — as financier or customer — if its bid failed.

The market did not react to the potential loss for Mineral Resources, with its shares up 2.9 per cent at
$9.63 yesterday.

Morningstar’s analysts said the pragmatic approach for Mineral Resources would be to sell into the
Baosteel bid in the hope of gaining favour and a slice of the construction pie for the West Pilbara iron
ore project.

The analysts said that they believed that Mineral Resources was overvalued, a view it believed was
supported by Aquila’s rejection of the scrip-based takeover equivalent of $3.75-a-share.Euroz
Securities analyst Greg Chessell also said that he expected Mineral Resources would accept into the
Baosteel offer, outlining that the alternative was to remain a large minority shareholder, with $197m of

Page241of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.assets tied-up in an illiquid security and at risk of future dilution potentially forced by a state-owned
enterprise.

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

aqures : Aquila Resources Ltd. | baois : Shanghai Baosteel Group Corp
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | igoldm : Gold Ore Mining | imet : Mining/Quarrying | isteel : Steel Production
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140619ea6k0003e

Page242of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.