China puts $1 billion on the table

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
China puts $1 billion on the table

Errol Smith
810 words
13 August 2014
Central Coast
CENTCE
CentralCoast
5
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Chinese investment that could exceed $1 billion is fuelling a major economic boom across the Central
Coast and, it seems, there is more come.
In recent months Chinese interests have: ■ Announced plans for a $500m cultural theme park complex
at Warnervale ■ Purchased Magenta Shores at The Entrance ■ Purchased Kooindah Resort and Spa
at Wyong and announced major expansion plans During the past few days it has also been reported
that Chinese interests have exchanged contracts for the purchase of the multi-million dollar Klumper
site at The Entrance, which only last year was earmarked for duel-highrise development.

Additionally, it’s widely believed a Chinese company has expressed an interest in building a planned
new multi-storey carpark in Shore St in the heart of The Entrance.
Another Chinese consortium is looking closely at Wyong Council’s multi-cultural university proposal on
the former country music site at Warnervale. The combined value of the investments would exceed a
$1 billion and generate a large number of jobs.
Gosford is also under scrutiny from China as a major investment site. The Kooindah Resort proposal
alone is expected to create more than 200 jobs. New owners, Harman Global Holdings, are planning a
modern hotel, more housing and a conference centre.

Pending planning approval, the new owners intend to proceed with plans for a suite of developments
including more than 100 boutique houses, a 120-room hotel and improvements to the existing resort
including improved function rooms enabling the shire to attract bigger conferences and events.
Ethan He, chief executive of the residential project marketing company Harman, says his company’s
vision is in synch with the council’s bigger picture for Wyong, addressing the need for niche housing, a
marketable tourism identity and major economic investment.

“Kooindah was a logical choice for us as a development because it is in an enviable position to capture
the Sydney market, located just off the freeway in an outstandingly beautiful area,” Mr He said.
CONSORTIUM MAKES STAGED PAYMENT Details surrounding the planned Chinese Theme Park
near Warnervale airport were revealed last week with a Development Application expected to be lodged
within the next few months by Australia-China Theme Park Pty Ltd. The consortium has so far paid
$70,000 of the $10 million offer for the council-owned site, in accordance with staged payments in the
contract. The balance is due by the end of 2015.
POSSIBILITY OF CHINESE UNIVERSITY Gosford Council has been in discussion with Chinese
business interests for several years with the likelihood of Chinese investment in the LGA high.

Council chief executive Paul Anderson and mayor Lawrie McKinna visited Shenyang City in December
to discuss the possibility of a Chinese university somewhere in the Gosford CBD. “The Liaoning
University has signed an agreement with the council to look at developing a campus in the CBD,” Mr

Page38of239©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Anderson said. “The Harbin University in China is also looking at the possibility of a campus
specialising in Chinese medicine and other practices for the CBD, so it is conceivable we could
eventually have two Chinese university presences.” He said there were alsoChinese investors looking
at development.

RESORT EXPANSION GREAT BOOST Central Coast Tourism chief executive Robyne Abernethy said
the proposed expansion of the resort would be a great boost for the Wyong Shire region and support
the growth of the local visitor economy.

“The additional room stock and expanded meeting and event facilities will allow the region to target
larger conferences and support the attraction of major regional events,” Ms Abernethy said.

Community College responds with Mandarin classes Responding to renewed enthusiasm to the coast’s
involvement with China, especially tourism, Central Coast Community College is offering Mandarin
classes.

Even Wyong councillors are being enticed to undertake the course with the council prepared to meet
reasonable expenses. However, councillors don’t seem too enthused with most saying they’re not
interested.

Councillors Lynne Webster, Bob Graham, Luke Nayna, Ken Greenwald and Lisa Matthews said they
would not be taking up the council’s offer to attend while Cr Adam Troy said he would not be at this
time.
Mayor Doug Eaton, who only returned from a visit to China on Monday, said he was already
undertaking Chinese language courses.

None of the other councillors responded to Express/Advocate inquiries. Community College tutor
Xuehuang (Willa) Chen, who has lived in Australia for 12 years, is looking forward to helping. She said
learning Chinese would be especially beneficial to the people involved with the Warnervale Theme
Park.
“The Chinese culture is very much intertwined with the language, and it is important to understand the
different ways of addressing people in Chinese society,” she said.Chinese Mandarin for Beginners will
be held at the college in Term 4. Inquiries: 4348 4300 or cccc.nsw.edu.au

NS

RE

PUB
AN

greg : Regional Politics | gtour : Travel | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | gpir :
Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics
china : China | nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document CENTCE0020140813ea8d0000w

Page39of239©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.