Stokes happy with BC Iron takeover bid

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Stokes happy with BC Iron takeover bid

Peter Ker
649 words
12 August 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
17
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

BillionaireKerry Stokes is set to swap his stake in a would-be iron ore miner for a stake in an
established exporter under the terms of BC Iron's $250 million takeover bid for ASX-listed Iron
Ore Holdings.
In the second takeover bid to strike the Australian iron ore sector in the space of three months, BC
has lobbed a cash and scrip offer for IOH that already has the blessing of the IOH board and its
52 per cent owner, Mr Stokes.

IOH shareholders have been offered 10¢ in cash, and 0.44 BC shares for every IOH share they
own, meaning the deal would deliver about $8.5 million in cash to Mr Stokes, plus about
$112 million worth of BC shares, based on the latter's closing share price on Monday.

Significantly, Mr Stokes will become the biggest shareholder in the enlarged BC, with 19 per cent, if
the takeover wins approval from at least 90 per cent of IOH shareholders.

Mr Stokes could not be reached on Monday, but his son and IOH director Ryan Stokes said he was
proud of what the company had achieved.
"We look forward to participating in the growth of BC Iron in coming years," he said.
BC exports about 4.3 million tonnes per year through its Nullagine joint venture with Fortescue
Metals Group, and while that partnership has turned the company into a dividend-paying market
darling, the joint venture has only six years of mine life remaining.
The acquisition of IOH could extend that mine life by 15 years, if IOH's two assets can be
successfully brought into production.
BC managing director Morgan Ball said IOH's $800 million Buckland Hill project, with its proposed
port facility at Cape Preston, was a particularly strategic part of the acquisition.
"As a merged company we will sit down and look at all our options in relation to developing
Buckland both from a development perspective and a funding perspective," he said.
The combined entity could yet have relevance to Chinese steelmaker Baosteel and rail provider
Aurizon, who jointly acquired iron ore assets close to Buckland Hill in the recent $1.42 billion
acquisition of Aquila Resources.
Baosteel and Aurizon are planning to spend more than $4 billion building a railway through the
region and a new port at Anketell, and Mr Ball specifically named that project as one of the many
transport options in the region.

"You would be aware of the Aurizon and Baosteel deal recently, and we believe the West Pilbara
has some really interesting options for infrastructure and iron ore production in the future," he said.

Page92of239©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Macquarie analyst Hayden Bairstow said it could make sense for the enlarged BC to co-operate
with Baosteel rather than build its own infrastructure.

"The key question here is what does it mean in the context of the Aquila Baosteel deal. Why would
BC Iron develop a barging facility there if someone else is going to build a greenfields port," he
said.
The Buckland Hill project is expected to cost about $800 million to build if BC decides to develop
its own transport infrastructure, and Mr Bairstow said that sort of outlay may not appeal to investors
who bought BC shares for dividends.
"The issue for BC Iron is that many of its shareholders bought the stock for dividends, and it's not
clear what now happens to that," he said.

BC shares closed 32¢ lower at $2.99, while IOH shares rose to their highest price in 27 months,
with the stock closing 37.5¢ higher at $1.325.
Meanwhile, creditors of collapsed oil and gas minnow Nexus voted on Monday to approve a deed
of company arrangement that will see Mr Stokes's Seven Group Holdings buy the company's
assets for $180 million.

i5020017 : Harbor Construction | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 :
Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | i502 : Heavy Construction | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | iconst : Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction | imet :
Mining/Quarrying
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cacqu : Acquisitions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140811ea8c0002n

IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page93of239©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.