AMSC Announces D-VAR(R) System Installations in Africa and the United States

AMSC Announces D-VAR(R) System Installations in Africa and the United States

HD
WC 2,017 words
PD
1 May 2014
ET
22:00
SN
GlobeNewswire
SC
PZON
LA
English
CY
© Copyright 2014 GlobeNewswire, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
LP

AMSC Announces D-VAR(R) System Installations in Africa and the United States
Company Also Announces Four D-VAR Wins in Australia, North America, and South Africa

TD

DEVENS, Mass., May 1, 2014 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- AMSC (Nasdaq:AMSC), a global solutions
provider serving wind and power grid industry leaders, today announced that it has successfully installed
and commissioned three D-VAR(R) STATCOM systems in Africa and the United States. The new
installations are connecting renewable power plants to the grid and ensuring power quality at industrial
sites. Additionally, AMSC announced that it has won four new D-VAR contracts in Australia, North
America, and South Africa. For all of these new contracts, the D-VAR system will be used to meet grid
interconnection standards and safely and efficiently connect wind and solar energy generation plants to
the power grid.

Renewable Installations
Located at the wind or solar plant substation, AMSC's D-VAR STATCOM provides a renewable energy
integration solution that allows power plants to stay online and helps prevent the nuisance tripping of
solar inverters and wind turbine generators. Customers utilize AMSC's D-VAR solutions to provide
dynamic voltage control, power factor correction and post-contingency reactive compensation to stabilize
the power grid and prevent undesirable events such as voltage collapse. The new installations include:

-- Kahuku

Wind project in Oahu, Hawaii: First Wind, an independent

U.S.-based wind energy company, is using the solution to connect the 30
megawatt (MW) Kahuku Wind project to the Hawaiian Electric Company's
(HECO) grid.

Power

-- Cookhouse Wind Farm near Port Elizabeth, South Africa: Consolidated
Projects (CONCO), South Africa's largest high voltage construction
company, has installed the D-VAR system as part of its efforts to
the 140 MW project to the Eskom's grid. Eskom is South Africa's primary
electric utility.

connect

Industrial Installations
Every year, billions of dollars in revenue are lost due to momentary power quality problems. The slightest
variations in voltage can cause hours of downtime, resulting in lost productivity and the need to recalibrate
equipment. When used to enhance power quality, AMSC's D-VAR system can cost effectively provide
efficiency, protection, and a secure connection, helping industrial facilities achieve smooth operation and
realize their full profit potential. AMSC also installed a D-VAR system for a power quality application at the
Yellowstone Valley Electric Co-op in Montana, United States. The Yellowstone Valley Electric Co-op is
using a D-VAR system to mitigate the voltage sags and flicker caused by large power draw from a local
car shredding facility.

Page249of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."To achieve our financial targets, we remain focused on winning new orders in both existing and emerging
markets," said Daniel P. McGahn, President and CEO, AMSC. "The new orders we announced today, in
conjunction with the new installations, demonstrate our accomplishments in our core markets of Australia
and the United States as well as in Africa, one of our targeted emerging markets."

About AMSC (Nasdaq:AMSC)

AMSC generates the ideas, technologies and solutions that meet the world's demand for smarter, cleaner
... better energy. Through its Windtec(TM) Solutions, AMSC provides wind turbine electronic controls and
systems, designs and engineering services that reduce the cost of wind energy. Through its Gridtec(TM)
Solutions, AMSC provides the engineering planning services and advanced grid systems that optimize
network reliability, efficiency, and performance. The company's solutions are now powering gigawatts of
renewable energy globally and enhancing the performance and reliability of power networks in more than
a dozen countries. Founded in 1987, AMSC is headquartered near Boston, Massachusetts with
operations in Asia, Australia, Europe and North America. For more information, please visit
http://www.amsc.com.

AMSC, Windtec and Gridtec are trademarks or registered trademarks of American Superconductor
Corporation. All other brand names, product names, trademarks or service marks belong to their
respective holders.

This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). Any statements in this release about
future expectations, plans, prospects, and our ability to win new orders in existing and emerging markets
to achieve our fiscal targets and other statements containing the words "believes," "anticipates," "plans,"
"expects," "will" and similar expressions, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements represent
management's current expectations and are inherently uncertain.

There are a number of important factors that could materially impact the value of our common stock or
cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. Such
factors include: We have experienced recurring operating losses and recurring negative cash flows from
operations which raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. This substantial
doubt has resulted in a qualified opinion from our auditors with an explanatory paragraph regarding our
ability to continue as a going concern. We believe this opinion may have an adverse effect on our
customer and supplier relationships; our success in addressing the wind energy market is dependent on
the manufacturers that license our designs; we may not realize all of the sales expected from our backlog
of orders and contracts; our business and operations would be adversely impacted in the event of a
failure or security breach of our information technology infrastructure; our success is dependent upon
attracting and retaining qualified personnel and our inability to do so could significantly damage our
business and prospects; we rely upon third-party suppliers for the components and subassemblies of
many of our Wind and Grid products, making us vulnerable to supply shortages and price fluctuations,
which could harm our business; many of our revenue opportunities are dependent upon subcontractors
and other business collaborators; if we fail to implement our business strategy successfully, our financial
performance could be harmed; problems with product quality or product performance may cause us to
incur warranty expenses and may damage our market reputation and prevent us from achieving increased
sales and market share; new regulations related to conflict-free minerals may force us to incur significant
additional expenses; our contracts with the U. S. government are subject to audit, modification or
termination by the U.S. government and include certain other provisions in favor of the government; the
continued funding of such contracts remains subject to annual congressional appropriation which, if not
approved, could reduce our revenue and lower or eliminate our profit; we may acquire additional
complementary businesses or technologies, which may require us to incur substantial costs for which we
may never realize the anticipated benefits; many of our customers outside of the United States are, either
directly or indirectly, related to governmental entities, and we could be adversely affected by violations of
the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws outside the United
States; we have limited experience in marketing and selling our superconductor products and
system-level solutions, and our failure to effectively market and sell our products and solutions could lower
our revenue and cash flow; we have experienced recurring losses from operations and negative
operating cash flow; these factors raise substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going
concern; we have a history of operating losses, and we may incur additional losses in the future; our
operating results may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and may fall below expectations in any
particular fiscal quarter; we may require additional funding in the future and may be unable to raise capital
when needed; our debt obligations include certain covenants and other events of default;. Should we not
comply with the covenants or incur an event of default, we may be required to repay our debt obligations
in cash, which could have an adverse effect on our liquidity; if we fail to maintain proper and effective
internal controls over financial reporting, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements
could be impaired and may lead investors and other users to lose confidence in our financial data; we

Page250of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.may be required to issue performance bonds or provide letters of credit, which restricts our ability to
access any cash used as collateral for the bonds or letters of credit; changes in exchange rates could
adversely affect our results from operations; growth of the wind energy market depends largely on the
availability and size of government subsidies and economic incentives; we depend on sales to customers
in China and India, and global conditions could negatively affect our operating results or limit our ability to
expand our operations outside of these countries; changes in China's or India's political, social,
regulatory and economic environment may affect our financial performance; our products face intense
competition, which could limit our ability to acquire or retain customers; our international operations are
subject to risks that we do not face in the United States, which could have an adverse effect on our
operating results; adverse changes in domestic and global economic conditions could adversely affect our
operating results; we may be unable to adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other
proprietary information; our patents may not provide meaningful protection for our technology, which could
result in us losing some or all of our market position; the commercial uses of superconductor products are

limited today, and a widespread commercial market for our products may not develop; there are a number
of technological challenges that must be successfully addressed before our superconductor products can
gain widespread commercial acceptance, and our inability to address such technological challenges could
adversely affect our ability to acquire customers for our products; we have not manufactured our
Amperium wire in commercial quantities, and a failure to manufacture our Amperium wire in commercial
quantities at acceptable cost and quality levels would substantially limit our future revenue and profit
potential; third parties have or may acquire patents that cover the materials, processes and technologies
we use or may use in the future to manufacture our Amperium products, and our success depends on our
ability to license such patents or other proprietary rights; our technology and products could infringe
intellectual property rights of others, which may require costly litigation and, if we are not successful, could
cause us to pay substantial damages and disrupt our business; we have filed a demand for arbitration and
other lawsuits against our former largest customer, Sinovel, regarding amounts we contend are overdue.
We cannot be certain as to the outcome of these proceedings; we have been named as a party to
purported stockholder class actions and stockholder derivative complaints, and we may be named in
additional litigation, all of which will require significant management time and attention, result in significant
legal expenses and may result in an unfavorable outcome, which could have a material adverse effect on
our business, operating results and financial condition; our common stock has experienced, and may
continue to experience, significant market price and volume fluctuations, which may prevent our
stockholders from selling our common stock at a profit and could lead to costly litigation against us that
could divert our management's attention. These and the important factors discussed under the caption
"Risk Factors" in Part 1. Item 1A of our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013, and our other
reports filed with the SEC, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those
indicated by forward-looking statements made herein and presented elsewhere by management from time
to time. Any such forward-looking statements represent management's estimates as of the date of this
press release. While we may elect to update such forward-looking statements at some point in the future,
we disclaim any obligation to do so, even if subsequent events cause our views to change. These
forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any date
subsequent to the date of this press release.

CONTACT:
AMSC Contact:

Kerry Farrell
Phone: 978-842-3247
Email: kerry.farrell@amsc.com

CO amrspc : American Superconductor Corp
IN

i163 : Electric Power Generation - Alternative Energy | irenewf : Renewable Energy Facility Construction |
i5020042 : Transmission Line Construction | i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i16101 : Electric Power
Generation | i502 : Heavy Construction | i5020044 : Power Station Construction | iconst : Construction |
icre : Real Estate/Construction | ieutil : Electric Utilities | iutil : Utilities | i32 : Machinery | i341 :
Wires/Cables | iindstrls : Industrial Goods
npress : Press Releases | ncat : Content Types
usa : United States | africaz : Africa | austr : Australia | safr : South Africa | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | namz :
North America | souafrz : Southern Africa

NS
RE

IPC AEQI
PUB GlobeNewswire, Inc.
AN

Document PZON000020140501ea5100022

Page251of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Page252of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.