Gina’s GIANT gamble

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Gina’s GIANT gamble

879 words
28 November 2014
The New Zealand Herald
NZHLD
C012
English
(c) 2014 The New Zealand Herald

Plunging mineral prices aren’t enough to deter Australia’s $18.7 billion woman from taking a punt on
iron ore

Gina Rinehart, the richest woman in the Asia-Pacific region, is set to start exports in September from
her new A$10 billion iron ore mine, undeterred by prices near five-year lows and forecast to fall even
further.

“We don’t like the ore price going down, but we’re in the lower quartile of production costs,” Rinehart
said last week in an interview at the Roy Hill mine in Western Australia’s iron-rich Pilbara region.

The chairwoman of Hancock Prospecting was talking just hours after Andrew Mackenzie, chief
executive of giant miner BHP Billiton, called an end to the era of “massive expansions of iron ore”.
BHP and its rivals, Rio Tinto and Vale, are flooding the global market with ore after a US$120 billion
spending spree to boost the capacity of their mines from Australia to Brazil.

“I don’t think next year would be ideal to be adding new supply,” says Daniel Morgan, a
Sydney-based analyst at UBS.

“The market is pretty well supplied for the next few years.”

Shares in BHP have fallen 16 per cent this year, while Rio shares are down by 17 per cent. The
share price of Fortescue Metals, the country’s third-biggest shipper, has fallen by 40 per cent.

The largest producers are aiming to ship record amounts of ore, betting that the increase in volume
will offset plunging prices and in the process force less competitive mines to close, including some in
China, the largest buyer of seaborne supplies.

“Our view is there’s a sustainable long-term iron ore demand,” Barry Fitzgerald, chief executive of
Roy Hill Holdings, told reporters. “Market economics will always demonstrate ultimately the high-cost
producers will need to exit the market and leave us among the other low-cost producers as one of the
last people standing.”
Rinehart, who also owns stakes in iron ore mines operated by Rio Tinto, has sold 30 per cent of Roy
Hill to a group including South Korea’s Posco, Japan’s Marubeni and Taiwan’s China Steel. The
overseas partners will take a share of production from Roy Hill, says the company website.

“It’s probably been a long-held goal to get something she controls into the market,” says UBS’
Morgan. “She’s obviously got a high exposure to the iron ore market through her other business
interests. This is the first time she gets to control an asset.”
More than 2 million tonnes of iron ore has already been stockpiled at Roy Hill, Rinehart told
reporters. Project construction was 67 per cent complete, said the company.

“Given we’re already an aggressively scheduled, fast-scheduled project, major project, really
complicated project, and to be ahead of schedule has been fantastic,” said Rinehart, whose net worth
is valued at US$14.6 billion ($18.7 billion), according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index.

Page56of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.While sticking with iron ore, Hancock Prospecting is also diversifying. One of its operations, Hope
Dairies, this month announced a A$500 million expansion into infant formula to supply China, with
plans for a farm and dairy herd in Queensland.
The price of iron ore, delivered to the Chinese port of Qingdao, has fallen by 47 per cent this year.
Last week the price was under US$71 a tonne and some forecasts have it falling even further. The
price will average US$65 a tonne next year, dropping into the US$50s in the third quarter as global
supply increases and demand remains weak, Citigroup said in a report this month.

“The worst is yet to come,” says Liang Ruian, a fund manager at Shanghai-based Jianfeng Asset
Management.

“Not only will we see increased supply from Brazil and Australia, also there’s an element of collapsing
demand which hasn’t been reflected in the price yet.”
Iron ore at “$70 is not a bottom and I’m not even sure it can stand above $50 next year”, says Liang.
“What people haven’t realised is the vanishing demand for commercial real estate here.”
Roy Hill’s break-even cost is US$56 for ore landed in China, a figure confirmed by Morgan. Rio’s
break-even cost is US$45, BHP’s is US$49 and Vale is at US$67, according to UBS.
The slowdown hasn’t discouraged Vale, the biggest exporter, which is investing US$37 billion in iron
ore mining and logistics projects, seeking to boost its output capacity to about 450 million tonnes by
2018.

In the long term, the market won’t be oversupplied all the time, Claudio Alves, Vale’s global director
of ferrous marketing and sales, said this month.
The global seaborne market needs to absorb a surplus of about 110 million tonnes next year, almost
double the 60 million tonnes this year, according to Goldman Sachs. The bank declared the “end of
the Iron Age” in a September report, as a Chinese-led surge in demand ended.

“The decline next year will be driven mainly by new supply from the majors in Western Australia,”
says Gerard Burg at National Australia Bank. — Bloomberg

bbiron
hkpros : Hancock Prospecting Pty. Ltd.
i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys |
imet : Mining/Quarrying | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources
reqrmm : Suggested Reading Metals/Mining | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr :
Suggested Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
W & H Newspapers Limited
Document NZHLD00020141127eabs0002t

RF
CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page57of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.