Primo gobbled up

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Primo gobbled up

PAUL GILDER
403 words
22 November 2014
Gold Coast Bulletin
GCBULL
GoldCoast
76
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

AUSTRALIAN food companies remain at the top of the global menu after the local arm of a
Brazilian-owned meat processing giant gobbled up smallgoods producer Primo Group in a
billion-dollar deal.
JBS Australia, a division of Brazil’s JBS SA, the world’s biggest food processing company, yesterday
announced it had signed a $1.45 billion deal to acquire the 29-year-old family business.

Primo, which is Australia’s biggest ham, bacon and smallgoods producer, had been 70.1 per cent
owned by Asia-Pacific based private equity groupAffinity Equity Partners since 2011.
The NSW company’s brands include Primo Smallgoods, Hans and Beehive, and it boasts a
3000-strong workforce and five processing plants across Australia and New Zealand.
The deal comes hot on the heels of a $1.3 billion Singaporean-Hong Kong joint offer for breadmaker
Goodman Fielder and bookends a year in which Canadian dairy group Saputo waged a fierce battle
for control of Warrnambool Cheese and Butter, falling just short of a full takeover in February.
A separate $3.4 billion attempt by US agribusiness Archer Daniels Midland to take over grains handler
GrainCorp was blocked by Treasurer Joe Hockey on national interest grounds late last year.
IG Markets strategist Evan Lucas said the recent signing of a free-trade agreement with China,
Australia’s biggest trading partner, had helped to put Australian agribusinesses front of mind among
global investors.
“These sort of deals are probably going to be a fairly regular thing,” Mr Lucas said. “China has put the
Australian foodbowl at the front of peoples’ minds and this brings a company like Bega Cheese into
play.” It also comes as local movers and shakers Andrew Forrest, chairman of Fortescue Metals, and
billionaireGina Rinehart invested millions in beef and milk producers respectively to cash in on the
expected boom in demand from China’s increasingly affluent middle-class.

JBS Australia chief Brent Eastwood said the acquisition provided a great opportunity for JBS to expand
Primo’s sales into offshore markets, including China.
“JBS intends to position Primo Group as the platform for exports in smallgoods to Asia,” Mr Eastwood
said.
Primo Group chief Paul Hitchcock said he welcomed the sale to JBS.“While it will remain very much
business as usual for our employees, suppliers and customers, this transaction offers tremendous
opportunities for Primo,” he said.

CO

fdgl : Goodman Fielder Ltd | fribol : Grupo JBS SA

Page211of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

ifood : Food Products | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp : Consumer Goods | i412 : Animal
Slaughtering/Processing | i4122 : Meat Processing
gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document GCBULL0020141123eabm0002v

Page212of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.