China ’s Greenland targets rural sector

China’s Greenland targets rural sector

18 November 2014
10:44
theAustralian.com.au
NLAUSW
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

The Australian

HD
CR
WC 271 words
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

CHINA’S Greenland Holding will buy Australian beef, dairy and wine companies in what could be one of
the largest forays into local agriculture.

The Shanghai-based Greenland chairman Zhang Yuliang, who is in Australia to discuss the free trade
agreement signing between Australia and China, said that the group was negotiating to buy major
Australian agriculture companies.

Greenland is a part state-owned entity which last year had global revenue of more than $50 billion.
Mr Zhang would not divulge the price of any potential deals, but he said that the group would have a local
presence in the industry within six months.
“Due to the economic development Chinese people’s consumption habits are changing,” Mr Zhang said.
“Our next step is to acquire such kinds of Australian companies and import more Australian (agricultural)
products into China,” he said.
“We are under negotiations (to buy a company) with our Australian counterparts.”
The free trade agreement to be inked between the countries will cut tariffs for Australian imports to China
in agricultural commodities such as dairy, beef and wine.
The group has made a major entry into the Australian property market in the past 18 months, investing in
about $1.4bn worth of projects in Sydney and Melbourne.
Greenland has joined forces with James Packer’s Crown Resorts to bid for the multi-billion-dollar Queens
Wharf casino, hotel and apartment project in the Brisbane CBD.
The group is battling a consortium led by Echo Entertainment for the project. The Queensland
government will select a winning party by the end of the month.

NS
RE

e512 : Physical Trade | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News
austr : Australia | china : China | greenl : Greenland | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America

PUB News Ltd.
AN

Document NLAUSW0020141118eabh0000a

Page227of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.