China ’s gentle warning to WA on gold royalties

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
China’s gentle warning to WA on gold royalties

Nick Evans
699 words
24 May 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
Second
1
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

The chairman of China’s biggest gold miner says Australia has a big part to play in Zijin Mining’s
quest to compete with the world’s biggest players but warned the State Government this week that
any change to gold royalty rates could derail investment in WA.
Zijin chairman Jinghe Chen says Australia will play a key role in Zijin’s plans to have half its gold
production from outside China within the next 10 years.

The Chinese company became the majority owner of Norton Gold Fields following its $229 million
takeover of the Kalgoorlie miner in August 2012.

Despite losing to rival bids in the past year’s wave of WA industry consolidation, Mr Chen says Zijin
is still hungry for growth by acquisition and it will only take one big deal to change the face of its
Australian presence.
Depressed commodity prices and a fall in the value of Australian mining companies set off a wave
of merger and acquisition activity led by Chinese investors.
Steelmaker Baosteel has teamed with Australian haulage provider Aurizon for a $1.4 billion tilt at
Tony Poli’s Aquila Resources and Guangdong Rising Assets Management launched a $2.30-a-share
bid for PanAust.
It is far from the heady days of 2011 when China Inc launched more than $11 billion worth of
takeover plays in the Australian market.

Mr Chen said the trend would continue, confirming that Zijin, through Norton, was still in the market
for new assets.
“The time for M&A is pretty good because the market is lower — particularly in iron ore and
copper,” he said. “The Chinese Government is encouraging companies to go out and expand their
business. Those two things have created the wave of deals at the moment.”
Mr Chen said the company would not overpay for assets, saying Zijin’s cautious approach meant it
succeeded where other high-profile Chinese entrants failed.
Norton declared a net after-tax profit of $22.5 million for 2013, a solid result considering last year’s
plunging gold price. Zijin’s investment in Norton is in contrast to China’s Shandong Gold, which
poured $225 million into Focus Minerals in 2012. Focus shut down its WA gold mines as the gold
price fell in 2013.
“In some of the (Chinese) M&A activities they purchased the asset but they didn’t pay a lot of
attention to their cost control and they failed,” he said.

Page68of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“The company has no ability to control the selling price in gold but we do have the ability to control
our costs.

“The Zijin board is very professional, very sensible and make sensible decision and don’t want to
make acquisitions when prices are high.

“Zijin’s vision is to be high-tech and highly profitable — we don’t just want to be big, we want to be
profitable.”
Mr Chen warned Zijin’s interest in WA could wane if the State Government lifted gold royalties as
part of a review that it estimates will lift royalty revenue by $180 million a year from 2015-16.

It is understood Mr Chen made that point to Mines Minister Bill Marmion in person this week.
“Australia is a mature mining country, has a good regulatory system and a stable political system so
Zijin rates Australia highly as an investment destination,” he said.

“Australia also has a very skilful workforce but the problem is it also has very high labour costs and,
in terms of production costs, one of the highest in the world.
“We met with Bill Marmion this morning and expressed our concerns about the gold royalty talk.”
That aside, Mr Chen said he believed strongly in the future of gold and in Zijin’s foray into the
Australian industry.
“We think the gold price should remain around $US1300 for now, but in the medium to long term we
are bullish about the price,” he said.
“China has a big market and Chinese people like gold, so that creates a huge market for gold sales
in China and we think it has the potential to grow in China.”

nogofe : Norton Gold Fields Ltd
i22472 : Precious Metals | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i22 : Primary Metals |
i224 : Non-ferrous Metals | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | i2112 : Gold Ore/Silver Ore Mining
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | reqrmm : Suggested Reading Metals/Mining | redit : Selection of
Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document TWAU000020140523ea5o0004y

CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page69of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.