Wealthy Chinese head Down Under

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

World
Wealthy Chinese head Down Under

A. Odysseus Patrick the Washington Post.
532 words
12 July 2014
The Toronto Star
TOR
ONT
WD2
English
Copyright (c) 2014 The Toronto Star

In recent weeks, wrecking crews have embarked on a job that symbolizes the international
economic clout of the Chinese elite: razing an Australian mansion with stunning views of one of
the world's most picturesque harbours.

Craig-y-Mor, an elegant 106-year-old home owned over the years by several prominent Sydney
businessmen, was bought in 2008 by the son and daughter-in-law of a former senior member of
the Chinese Politburo for $32.4 million.

The new owners, Zeng Wei and Jiang Mei, sought permission to demolish the two-storey brick
house and replace it with a five-level modern concrete structure with huge windows.

The scale and design of the plan horrified some neighbours and government officials. After the
municipality refused to allow demolition, Zeng's lawyers appealed to a state judge, who overruled
that decision.
Australia relies on China to buy much of its two main exports, coal and iron ore.
But many say there's a downside to Chinese investment: surging property values.

Even though Australia is sparsely populated, house prices in its biggest cities are comparable to
those in Washington, San Francisco and Paris.
Apartments overlooking the city's famous Opera House sell for more than $10 million.

"A generation of Australians are being priced out of the property market. Many face a lifetime of
renting," Damien Boey, an analyst at investment bank Credit Suisse, wrote in a recent note to
clients.
Concerns that Chinese buyers could be driving a property bubble are so widespread that the
Australian parliament recently began an investigation.

Little is known about Zeng.
His father is Zeng Qinghong, the vice-president of China from 2003 to 2008, and a player in the
leadership manoeuvring over the past decade that led to the rise of President Xi Jinping.

Foreign Policy magazine reported in 2012 that Zeng Wei was involved in the clandestine
privatization of the state-owned Luneng power-generating company, which had more than $9
billion in net assets.

Zeng, who is reportedly in his mid-40s and has young children, didn't respond to a letter seeking
comment on the Sydney home.

Page174of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.John Landerer, managing director of the law firm that represented him in his dispute with the
municipal council, declined to comment.

The architect designing the new house, Stephen Gergely, referred questions to a representative of
the Zeng family, Gavan Slaughter, who also did not comment.
Bill Malouf, a veteran real estate agent whose firm brokered the sale of the house, said in an
interview that Craig-y-Mor wasn't in need of renovation.
Chinese buyers prefer modern, symmetrical houses lacking the ornate detail common to many of
Sydney's grand older homes, he said. Views of the Sydney's iconic Opera House and Harbour
Bridge are important, he said.

"He was always going to do a major renovation," Malouf said of the buyer. "There was nothing
wrong with the house."

A. Odysseus Patrick is a reporter for the Washington Post.
A 106-year-old mansion was knocked down in order to build another, bigger mansion for Chinese
buyers. Dominic K. Lorrimer/The Washington Post
austr : Australia | china : China | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | nswals : New South Wales
Toronto Star Newspapers Limited
Document TOR0000020140712ea7c000fa

ART

RE

PUB
AN

Page175of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.