ASCO announces Australian acquisition and Annual Results

HD
WC 603 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

ASCO announces Australian acquisition and Annual Results

26 May 2014
Energy Monitor Worldwide
ENRGYMEN
English
© 2014 Global Data Point. All Rights Reserved.

TD

ASCO Group has continued its push into the Australian market, becoming the majority shareholder in
Bonnie Rock Transport - a specialist provider of oil and gas logistics support.

At the same time, the Group has announced trading results for 2013, which have seen revenue growing
by 13.2% to £768.6m and operating profit up 158% to £14.8m (£5.7m in 2012).

Bonnie Rock Transport provides logistics support to both the onshore and offshore markets. Its services
include warehousing and distribution, container transport and freight distribution across Australia. The
company is headquartered in Perth and has depots in Perth, Dampier, Dongara and Broome in Western
Australia, as well as Chinchilla in Queensland.

Describing Bonnie Rock as a perfect fit with ASCO’s international activities and our expansion plans in
Australia, ASCO Australasia CEO, Matt Thomas, said: "We’re building a significant footprint in Australia -
with our management of the Darwin Marine Supply Base, our acquisition of Brisbane-based global
inventory and asset management business Oniqua in 2012, and now the Bonnie Rock purchase.

"ASCO Australasia can now support customers through the entire supply chain cycle, ensuring equipment
and materials get to where they’re needed, when they’re needed."

Expressing his delight at joining with an organisation of ASCO’s global reputation as a leader in support
services to the oil and gas industry, Bonnie Rock Transport Managing Director, Jim Currie said; "We are
excited about the opportunities that will come with joining a group the size and expertise of ASCO and we
look forward to working closely together to grow our business across Australia."

As well as the increases in revenue and operating profit, one of the key highlights outlined in the Annual
Report and Accounts for the year to 31 December 2013 is the award of the three-year $100m contract by
BG in Tanzania to provide Supply Base services at Mtwara Port which gives the company a firm foothold
in East Africa and a foundation on which to develop more business in the region.

Group CEO Derek Smith comments, "The year saw us make further progress towards our strategic goals
of growing our capability and remaining focused on customer service and operational excellence.

"Our carefully managed global expansion within our four key regions, has allowed us to create tailored
management teams that can offer clients unrivalled service and support. Our wider geographic coverage
and service range is also helping us develop new capabilities and diversify our business.

"The addition of Bonnie Rock to our portfolio means that we can support offshore and onshore customers
through the entire supply chain cycle. In addition, the onshore Perth, Canning Basins are the focus of
growing international attention due to their conventional and now unconventional oil and gas. This gives
us some fabulous opportunities to be involved with some leading operators who are investing millions of
dollars to explore these areas.

"Collaboration in our industry is going to be key. In the UKCS, this is re-enforced by the recent publication
of ‘UKCS Maximising Recovery Review. If we come together as an industry and work in closer
partnership, we will ensure maximum returns not just within the UKCS, but around the world."

Formed in 1998 by members of the well-known Currie family - Jim, Ron, John and Darren - Bonnie Rock
has built a reputation over the past 16 years as one of the leading providers of transport and logistics
services to the onshore oil and gas industry across Australia.

Page30of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Bonnie Rock is particularly well known in northern Australia for successfully undertaking projects in
remote and difficult locations.

CO ascoab : ASCO Group Ltd | pephl : Phoenix Equity Partners Holdings LLP
IN

i1 : Energy | i763 : Port/Harbor Operations | iship : Water Transport/Shipping | itsp :
Transportation/Shipping
c151 : Earnings | cacqu : Acquisitions | c15 : Performance | c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 :
Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

NS

RE
IPD Oil & Gas
PUB Global Data Point Ltd.
AN

Document ENRGYMEN20140526ea5q0008w

Page31of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.