Companies wary of global concerns as M &As slow

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Companies wary of global concerns as M&As slow

EXCLUSIVE: MICHAEL BENNET
643 words
24 September 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
17
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Firms wary as M&As slow INCREASED global uncertainties and fears of a major correction in asset
prices may force companies to pause takeover plans, stalling the economic uplift from more
aggressive “animal spirits”.
Mergers and acquisitions announced in the third quarter slowed to $US16 billion ($18bn), down 69
per cent on the prior three months and 23 per cent on the same period last year, according to
Thomson Reuters’ quarterly data exclusive to The Australian.

Initial public offerings also fell 23 per cent to $US3.2bn on the prior quarter as the reporting season
stole investors’ attention and equity markets sold off.

The slowdown in corporate activity is in contrast to the roaring first half of the year, which saw 20
takeovers worth more than $1bn led by infrastructure and utilities deals like Queensland Motorways
and Envestra.

While confident the recent lull is only temporary, dealmakers and fund managers said the
uncertainties roiling markets were being closely monitored, including China’s easing growth and
looming interest rate rises in the US. The ructions have pushed iron ore below $US80 a tonne, wiped
out the stockmarket’s gains for the year and sunk the dollar to below US90c.

Christian Johnston, head of investment banking at Goldman Sachs, said boards and management
teams were still willing to consider strategic opportunities, but “some of this activity may roll into
2015”.

“The macro headwinds have a dampening effect on this appetite, but in many cases these are
outweighed by the strategic rationale,” Mr Johnston said.

Given the limited time before Christmas, Perennial Value managing director John Murray is also more
bullish on deal flow next year as companies potentially “become tired of giving money back to
shareholders and shrinking”.

Mr Johnston said confidence was still only “gradually improving”, but there were reasons for
optimism, such as companies’ increased focus on growth, strong balance sheets and relatively cheap
funding. The comments come after Reserve Bank governor Glenn Stevens lamented business’s lack
of “animal spirits”, vital to private sector growth.

Roger Feletto, co-country head of US independent investment bank Greenhill, said companies were
“rightfully watchful” of economic growth headwinds and the potential impact of “international tensions
and conflicts”.
But he said companies understood there was “rarely a perfect time” to do deals and M&A provided
growth when organic opportunities were muted. Mr Feletto added the “risks around the long-term
economic outlook for Australia” was leading companies to “increasingly” ponder international
expansion.

Page190of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“I would expect a recovery in M&A over the balance of the year,” Mr Feletto said.
Despite the recent slowdown, the total announced M&As of $US86.5bn this year is on track to beat
the $US100bn of deals last year. The value of M&As that have closed — important to investment
banks’ success fees — is at $US94bn, well up on last year’s $US66bn.

Goldman has worked on the most deals by value, ahead of Macquarie, UBS and Citi. At the big end
of town, takeover bids from foreign companies have dominated, including KKR’s move on
TreasuryWine.

Morgan Stanley head of investment banking Richard Wagner said the declining dollar and commodity
prices would inspire more inbound M&A over the next year. “China will pounce on the buying
opportunity when the time is right, and it’s nearing that point in the cycle,” he said.

He said there would be a “deluge” of large privatisations next year after state elections in Victoria,
NSW and Queensland.Perennial’s Mr Murray agreed the softening dollar would attract more foreign
buyers, but said firms would be cautious doing M&A deals overseas. Hostile all-cash bidding wars for
large stocks would eventually rise and “undoubtedly light a fire under the market”.

CO
IN
NS
RE
PUB
AN

envest : Envestra Ltd.
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140923ea9o0006k

Page191of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.