Transpacific halt pending review

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Transpacific halt pending review

Bridget Carter, Waste management
319 words
14 August 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
18
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

WASTE management company Transpacific is expected to reveal by the end of the week that it
has made major provisions surrounding the costs for landfill remediation.
The company was placed in a trading halt last night pending an announcement before the close of
trade on Friday.

However, analysts were puzzled by the company’s move to halt trading in its shares. They said the
provisions were non-cash items and a larger-than-normal provision would not normally trigger a
trading halt.

Transpacific reports its full-year results on August 21. In February the group posted a 391 per cent
increase in half-year net profit to $158.6 million, a result propelled higher by a major asset sale.
However, at the time underlying net profit still increased by 16.5 per cent to $41.7 m.

Chief executive Robert Boucher had previously said he expected trading conditions to remain stable
in the six months to June.
A sale of Transpacific’s New Zealand operations to China’s Beijing Capital was expected to result
in the company returning to paying dividends.
The payments were cancelled by the company, which had agreed to certain restrictions on
dividends with its syndicate banks and US private placement note holders.
Beijing Capital paid $NZ950m for the business in March and the sale was to be finalised in June.
At the time, Morgans analyst Nathan Lead said the deal would see Transpacific lose about 20 per
cent of its earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, but reduce debt from about
1.9 times earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation to about 0.2 times.
Mr Boucher had hoped the deal would put the company on track to position itself for growth.Shares
were halted last night at $1.09, with the stock falling from levels of about $1.16 earlier in the year.

NS

RE
PUB
AN

c1522 : Share Price Movement/Disruptions | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News |
ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry
News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140813ea8e0003v

Page245of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.