Billing Platform will be working with Energy Australia

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Billing Platform will be working with Energy Australia

322 words
28 October 2014
Investing.com
INVEN
English
Copyright 2014. Fusion Media Limited. All Rights Reserved.

Billing Platform is excited to announce that they will be working with Energy Australia to provide billing
and order management for a variety of new, consumer and business products and services. Energy
Australia is a privately held, Australian energy provider owned by Hong Kong-based CLP Group. EA
has consumer and business clientele numbering over 2.8 million, with a $5 billion portfolio of assets.
The company offers a large suite of services - including heating, cooling, electricity & gas, hot water
systems, and solar panel installations.
Energy Australia was originally founded in 1995, and has since matured into a leader within its space.
Its $5 billion portfolio includes power plants, gas plants, mines and wind farms spread across Victoria,
New South Wales, and South Australia.

The company invests a substantial amount of recourses in sustainability through its dynamic Climate
Change strategy - sourcing much of its power from wind energy farms and providing solar panel
installations.

Billing Platform's powerful billing engine will be responsible for processing billing transactions related to
Energy Australia's business and residential services supporting Orders, Sales, Installations, and
Maintenance. This new system also integrates with Salesforce.com to provide end-to-end, streamlined
quote-to-cash-to-support processes, helping EA meet customer demands in the most efficient way
possible.

Billing Platform CTO, Leo Solomon Comments:

Along with core billing and rating functionality, the platform centralizes inventory management,
purchase orders, and invoice & statement generation and delivery in an efficient, automated set of
processes. The Platform's unique customization capabilities provide EA with the ability to implement the
exact business scenarios they need quickly and efficiently making their new billing and support system
highly adaptable to change.

Billing Platform is proud to be part of an initiative that will help contribute to a sustainable future, and
support local Australian communities by creating jobs and helping customers save on energy costs.

IN

NS

RE
IPD
PUB
AN

i163 : Renewable Energy Generation | iwind : Wind Energy | i1 : Energy | i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities |
i16101 : Electric Power Generation | ieutil : Electric Utilities | iutil : Utilities
c22 : New Products/Services | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Energy & Power
Fusion Media Limited
Document INVEN00020141029eaas0005r

Page116of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.