Mineral Resources wants Baosteel role

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Mineral Resources wants Baosteel role

Sarah-Jane Tasker, resources
459 words
15 August 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
18
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

MINERAL Resources boss Chris Ellison has not given up hope of being involved in the $8 billion
West Pilbara iron ore project, despite losing a battle with the Chinese for the asset.
Mr Ellison, delivering a record result for his company yesterday, agreed that in hindsight he should
have spoken with Chinese steel giant Baosteel before he launched a rival bid for Aquila Resources.

Mineral Resources took an $18 million hit on its failed takeover attempt, after it sold its shares into
the Baosteel bid at a lower price than what it had paid to buy its Aquila stake. It bought in after
Baosteel launched a $1.4bn bid in an attempt to win a seat at the deal table.
Mr Ellison said he had since held talks with Baosteel and he believed his company could have a
role in the development of the West Pilbara iron ore development.

“There is no doubt they are going to talk to us about helping them,” he said. “We believe the model
that we have can put these operating assets on the ground at a low cost, high quality and we think
we are going to be very competitive for Baosteel.

“I have spoken to them and we do have a strong relationship with them. We expect to be able to help
them on that project.” Mr Ellison said what had attracted him to the West Pilbara project was the
opportunity to get involved in building a supply chain through the region and being involved in a 20 to
30-year operation.

He said he had shared Mineral Resources’ intentions for the project with Baosteel, adding that his
capital expenditure figure was “substantially” below the $8bn number Aquila had put on the
development.
“Our focus with the project would be on the traditional stuff we do on mining, crushing, and
processing and loading ore onto trains,” he said.

Mr Ellison reported an eighth consecutive year of revenue growth for tMineral Resources. The
company unveiled a 73 per cent jump in revenue to $1.8bn and a 28 per cent increase on its net
profit to $231m. It almost doubled iron ore export volumes to 10.4 million tonnes.
“We have had a good start to the year but our pricing on iron ore has been fading as the year has
gone on ... I think we have hit the bottom of that pricing cycle and it is bouncing off the bottom now,”
Mr Ellison said.
“We have been able to look hard at all our costs across our operations and we have had good
success in reducing costs.”He added that the company would be chasing projects with a 20-year
mine life.

CO

aqures : Aquila Resources Ltd. | baois : Shanghai Baosteel Group Corp

Page96of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | igoldm : Gold Ore Mining | isteel : Steel Production
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140814ea8f00011

Page97of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.