Gas price will send us offshore: steel boss

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Gas price will send us offshore: steel boss

Bridget Carter, resources
387 words
9 August 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
27
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

BlueScope Steel chairman Graham Kraehe has warned that industry will move offshore if excessive
gas prices are not addressed.

Addressing an Australian Industry Group business lunch in Sydney yesterday, he also urged
government to address frustrating delays with decisions made by the competition watchdog and
watered down suggestions of a rebound in the iron ore price.

Mr Kraehe, who is also the chairman of packaging giant Brambles, said government needed to
encourage new investment in gas, with incentives offered on the proviso that a proportion of gas would
be allocated to the domestic market.

“BlueScope has businesses in North America that are big users of gas,” he said. “We can write a
contract in North America for 10 years at under $US5 a petajoule. In Australia it will cost you $US12 a
petajoule, and you can’t write a contract for more than 12 to 18 months.” Gas prices are soaring on the
back of strong demand for supply from producers by offshore customers and Mr Kraehe said the
steelmaker’s costs would rocket if gas prices continued to escalate. Ultimately, other manufacturers
more reliant on gas, such as cement and potash-makers, would be forced to shut down domestic
operations.

“A lot of companies are making more investment outside Australia than inside,” he said.
He said he believed the iron ore price would remain at between $US80 and $US100 a tonne. “If you
think what’s happened in this massive resources boom, we’ve doubled and quadrupled the amount of
iron ore we are producing and exporting at a time when China is trying to cut back the growth in the
steel industry for environmental reasons,” he said.

Mr Kraehe said the Australian Competition & Consumer Commission needed to make decisions more
promptly and recognise what the market was that people operated in.

“Steel fabrication, with every business distressed ... whether you have got a steel fabricator in South
Sydney or not is irrelevant; it is a national market and you need a national approach to the market and
you need a fast track,” he said.BlueScope was recently forced to sell its Perth sheet and coil business
to get ACCC approval for its $23 million acquisition of Arrium’s national sheet and coal business.

CO
IN

NS
RE

PUB

bhpstl : Bluescope Steel Ltd
i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | isteel : Steel Production | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | i223 : Steel Cold Rolling/Forming
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New
South Wales
News Ltd.

Page115of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AN

Document AUSTLN0020140808ea890003o

Page116of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.