IMX cuts its cloth to suit its means IMX shifts its focus

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
IMX cuts its cloth to suit its means IMX shifts its focus

469 words
6 October 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
First
1
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

The phrase changing winds and shifting sands is apt for IMX Resources, which probably deserves
status as a poster child for what is happening at the junior end of the mining sector.
Not that long ago IMX was trumpeting its ability to profitably ship iron ore from the small Cairn Hill
magnetite operation in South Australia while spending money on the drill bit to unearth
direct-shipping hematite nearby at the Mt Woods project.

Then came the great iron ore crash of 2014, and Cairn Hill was gone (placed into administration in
June) and Mt Woods sold (for $3.7 million, announced last month and due to settle soon).

The latest chapter in IMX’s life, since February under the hands-on chairmanship of Derek Fisher, is
to hunt for graphite and gold riches in Tanzania.
There is no synergy with iron ore near Coober Pedy, just an example of a company small enough
to shift from no-longer-hot metal to hot metal. It has been happening at the junior end for decades
though rarely demonstrated as extremely as by IMX.

This week IMX expects to kick off a major drilling campaign at the Nachingwea project in southern
Tanzania, with particular focus on the Chilalo graphite and Kishugu gold prospects.

IMX is planning 100 holes of reverse circulation (for 10,000m) and diamond (1000m) drilling.

There has been some past drilling at Nachingwea and IMX also expects to benefit from $US10
million spent on the tenements by China’s MMG, which has since quit a farm-in deal.

IMX’s priority, and biggest hope, is to confirm coarse-flake graphite at Chilalo. It has already
warmed investors to the prospect of a maiden JORC-compliant mineral resource in the first quarter
of next year.

The well-promoted Syrah Resources has seen its share price explode from $2.50 a year ago to as
high as $5.99 — it last traded at $4.02, for a $657 million market cap — amid excitement about its
Balama graphite project in Mozambique and the possibility of corporate activity.

Syrah says Balama is the biggest and one of the highest-grade flake graphite and vanadium
projects in the world.

It is music to the ears of IMX, which has wasted little time to boast that Chilalo is also located in the
so-called Mozambique Belt.

IMX shares are struggling at 2.1¢ though one suspects the register shake-out that accompanied the
end of iron ore ambitions and a renewed focus on greenfields exploration has had something to do
with the downtrodden price.
IMX has completed a $3 million equity raising, with the cash earmarked for Nanchingwea, while
the proceeds from the Mt Woods sale should leave it debt free.

Page113of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CO
IN
NS
RE
PUB
AN

gldsm : IMX Resources Limited
imet : Mining/Quarrying | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | i211 : Metal Ore Mining
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document TWAU000020141005eaa600005

Page114of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.