Aquila backs Baosteel bid

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Aquila backs Baosteel bid

Peter Klinger
459 words
19 June 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
First
22
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

Mineral Resources faces question marks over its iron ore strategy and is staring at an $18.4 million
paper loss on a week-old Aquila Resources investment following a dramatic twist in the $1.4 billion
takeover battle.

Aquila yesterday rejected MinRes’ merger plan and instead urged investors to accept Baosteel and
Aurizon’s $3.40 cash bid.

Aquila executive chairman Tony Poli, who owns 28.9 per cent, will accept the Baosteel offer “in the
absence of a superior proposal”. Combined with Baosteel’s existing 19.8 per cent stake, it all but gifts
the suitors a majority stake in Aquila.
But it leaves MinRes, which wanted Aquila’s West Pilbara project to transform its own iron ore
operation, in the cold.

MinRes yesterday terminated takeover talks after failing to reach agreement with Aquila on a
scrip-swap merger proposal.
The MinRes deal was worth $3.75 — the price at which it secured a 12.8 per cent stake in Aquila last
week — but the target yesterday said Baosteel’s $3.40 cash offer was “superior”. Aquila shares
jumped 7 per cent to $3.35.

Aquila did not explain its assessment of the rival bids but tomorrow or Monday will release its target’s
statement and independent expert’s report.

While it remains unclear if independent expert Grant Samuel will declare Baosteel’s $3.40 offer fair and
reasonable, it is thought Aquila’s board was nervous about MinRes’ scrip offer because of shakier
prospects for iron ore equities.

In his first words on the takeover since Baosteel pounced six weeks ago, Mr Poli said: “We have given
thorough consideration to the Baosteel-Aurizon offer and, on balance, have come to the view that
Aquila shareholders would be better off accepting in the absence of a superior proposal.”
Aquila’s support for Baosteel caps a tumultuous week which began with MinRes’ stake building. At the
time Aquila applauded MinRes’ decision to buy at $3.75 as “recognition that the value of the
company’s shares is well in excess” of Baosteel’s $3.40 offer. Since then, however, the iron ore price
has continued to fall and it is understood Aquila shareholders were rattled by Baosteel’s hard-line
stance on Friday to declare the $3.40 offer final and its warning that China was taking a dim view of
MinRes’ intervention.

“This is a welcome development today which recognises the compelling nature of our all-cash offer,”
Baosteel Resources International chairman Dai Zhihao said yesterday.

Page8of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.MinRes would not discuss its plans for the Aquila stake but said it was keen to get involved in West
Pilbara’s development.

Aquila shareholders would be better off accepting. ”

Aquila executive chairman Tony Poli

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

aqures : Aquila Resources Ltd. | baois : Shanghai Baosteel Group Corp
i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | i211 : Metal
Ore Mining | igoldm : Gold Ore Mining | imet : Mining/Quarrying | isteel : Steel Production
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cacqu : Acquisitions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document TWAU000020140618ea6j00002

Page9of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.