Massive PNG gas project loads first shipment

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Massive PNG gas project loads first shipment

357 words
16 May 2014
15:11
Agence France Presse
AFPR
English
Copyright Agence France-Presse, 2014 All reproduction and presentation rights reserved.

Australian energy firm Santos said Friday the first exports from its huge US$19 billion gas project in
Papua New Guinea will soon depart for Japan, four years after the joint venture was given the go-ahead.
The massive project, operated by US energy giant ExxonMobil , had started loading its first cargo on the
tanker "Spirit of HELA", which can reportedly carry up to 6.3 million cubic feet (177,000 cubic metres) of
gas.

Santos chairman Ken Borda told shareholders at their annual meeting in Adelaide that the first shipment
was a "great outcome for this extraordinary project", which had faced numerous hurdles including
flooding during the construction phase.

"I am pleased to announce that the first export cargo is being loaded now and will soon depart PNG
bound for Japan," he said.

PNG Prime Minister Peter O'Neill said on Thursday the project -- the largest development ever
undertaken in the impoverished Pacific country -- was "something for all of Papua New Guinea to be
proud of".

"This project puts PNG on the world stage as a country that can work with foreign investors to deliver
projects on time," he said at a ceremony marking the first shipment.
The project will supply four major customers in Taiwan, Japan and China and is expected to produce an
expected nine trillion cubic feet (255 billion cubic metres) of liquefied natural gas (LNG) over its 30-year
life.

It includes gas production and processing facilities in PNG's Southern Highlands and Western Provinces,
liquefication and storage facilities on the Gulf of Papua and more than 700 kilometres (450 miles) of
pipelines.
ExxonMobil has the largest stake at 33.2 percent. Its partners include Oil Search Ltd (29 percent), the
PNG government (16.6 percent), Santos (13.5 percent), Japan's Nippon Oil Corp (4.7 percent) and local
landowners (2.8 percent).
The project will quadruples Santos' LNG production and, together with the company's Gladstone gas
development in Australia, is expected to double its operating cash flows over the next two years, Borda
said.

grk/mp/dan

CO
IN

NS

exxn : Exxon Mobil Corporation | sants : Santos Ltd
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil
Extraction | iioil : Integrated Oil/Gas
c11 : Plans/Strategy | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News

Page8of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

papng : Papua New Guinea | austr : Australia | jap : Japan | sydney : Sydney | nswals : New South Wales
| apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz :
Eastern Asia | pacisz : Pacific Islands
Australia

IPD
PUB Agence France-Presse
AN

Document AFPR000020140516ea5g0035x

Page9of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.