Liquidity holds back investors

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Liquidity holds back investors

Larry Schlesinger
298 words
12 June 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
35
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Australia's commercial real estate turnover this year will not match the heights of 2013 because of a
shortage of stock to buy, said property services group DTZ.
About $23 billion worth of Australian commercial real estate changed hands in 2013.

"Investor appetite for Australian property is still strong, but there's just not enough premium grade
stock available for purchase," said Dominic Brown, head of Australian research at DTZ.
The latest DTZ Money into Property report found Britain to be the most liquid market globally at
9.2 per cent, followed by Singapore at 7.6 per cent.
Liquidity is defined as the percentage of total property held by investors that is traded in a market.
Australia's liquidity was measured at 4.2 per cent with China the lowest at just 0.6 per cent.

"Liquidity is important for investors," Dr Brown said.

"You want good liquidity on both the buying and selling side. Some markets like Australia are hard to
buy into but easy to sell out of. In Hong Kong, you have the opposite problem." London ranked as
the most liquid investment market in the world – on both the buy and sell side – and also as the
leading global city for commercial property investment, according to DTZ.

Dr Brown said a lack of liquidity was encouraging investors to look at assets further up the risk curve
including quality office properties in fringe locations such as St Kilda Road and North Sydney, as well
as smaller shopping centres and development sites.

Globally, better market sentiment and rising capital values pushed up the value of investable
commercial real estate by 4 per cent to $13.7 trillion, with Asia-Pacific surpassing Europe as the
largest regional market, DTZ found.

IN
NS
RE
PUB
AN

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
ereal : Real Estate Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140611ea6c0002h

Page172of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.