Horan & Bird, Longwarry Food Park, Bellamy's Organic vie for best regional mid-market business gong

HD

BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
LA
CY
LP

TD

Horan & Bird, Longwarry Food Park, Bellamy's Organic vie for best regional mid-market business
gong
Anthony Black
1,244 words
14 August 2014
BRW
BRW
First
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Running a business in regional Australia can be tough given smaller markets. Finding enough skilled
local labour and other resources can also present challenges.
However, some regional business operators possess the vision, the dedication, leadership and
commitment to expand not only into Australian capital cities, but overseas markets.

Some firms may have started small, but have since grown into mid-sized businesses generating tens of
millions of dollars in revenue, while providing employment opportunities and value-adding in regional
Australia. This article examines three finalists in the category of Best Mid-market Business in regional
Australia, as part of the BRW/GE Capital Momentum Mid-Market awards.

HORAN & BIRD
When John Horan wanted to expand his energy solutions company in 2008, he had to sell a rental
property to pay for solar panels imported from China.
Horan, a founder of Horan & Bird, paid $240,000 upfront to import 1000 solar panels that took five
weeks to arrive in Melbourne, before they were trucked to the company's headquarters in Townsville.
Horan sold another rental property to finance his second container of 1000 solar panels from China
only months later.
Times have since changed for the better after Horan established a trusting relationship with Chinese
supplier Trina Solar.
"Today, the Chinese manufacturer sends two containers of solar panels a week directly to Townsville
and I have 90 days to pay," Horan says. "In any business, it's vital to build trust with suppliers to enable
access to credit.
"My attitude in business is to tell the truth, do what we say we'll do and fix an issue when we have made
a mistake. Without that attitude, any business is destined to fail, particularly in regional Australia where
word-of-mouth travels pretty fast."
After starting as electrical contractors in a garage in 2004, Horan and business partner Scott Bird have
grown to become the second biggest solar company in Queensland and the fifth largest in Australia.
The company also designs and installs air conditioners, has 70 full time employees and generated
revenue of about $14 million and a profit of $2.5 million in the 2013/14 financial year.

Horan & Bird's founders John Horan and Scott Bird.

In Queensland, Horan & Bird has expanded beyond Townsville to Brisbane, Burdekin, Cairns and
Mackay. The company has 14,000 customers.

Page219of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Horan says the company focuses on providing the best customer service possible as it generates repeat
business and leads to new clients. He says solar panels are spread across about 2 million premises in
Australia, so there's plenty of maintenance and cleaning work for his company to chase.
Horan says the business is exporting solar panels to the Cook Islands and New Zealand, and plans to
develop markets in Fiji, Tonga and Vanuatu. "Australia's only a certain size, so every business should
be looking for export opportunities," Horan says.
He says the advent of the electric car should provide his company with another revenue stream. He
says the technology exists for an electric car battery to power a home for three nights via "smart"
integration circuits with a property's switchboard. "When the electric car becomes more affordable,
households won't need to be connected to the power grid," he says.

LONGWARRY FOOD PARK
Rakesh Aggarwal is a resilient businessman. Not only did a fire almost destroy his dairy business in
2012, the exporter overcame a challenging 2013 in response to a high Australian dollar, lower
commodity prices and weak industry sentiment.
"We're a company that has literally risen from the ashes," Aggarwal says proudly of the business,
which makes milk powder, fresh milk, long life (UHT) milk and cream cheese.

Laura McBain, CEO of Bellamy's Organic, outside Launceston, Tasmania. Photo: Mark Jesser

Despite the setbacks, Longwarry Food Park, located near Gippsland in south-east Victoria, still managed
to generate revenue of $67.835 million for the year ending June 30, 2013. After lifting production, cutting
costs and generating greater plant efficiencies, Longwarry lifted revenue to $93 million for the 12
months to June 30, 2014. Longwarry has 54 full-time employees.
Longwarry generates 80 per cent of revenue from exporting almost 20,000 metric tonnes of dairy
products a year to Asia, the Middle East and North Africa. In Australia, it sells fresh milk to shops and
major supermarkets.

Aggarwal says Austrade, Victorian government trade missions, his website and his attendance at
overseas trade exhibitions helped build his overseas client base.
"I would encourage any business operator to take advantage of the external assistance available to
develop in overseas markets," Aggarwal says. "The markets overseas are huge so there's good
opportunities to grow. Australia is seen as clean and green, which is a great image when exporting dairy
products. Overseas clients just don't doubt the clean and green image."

Aggarwal says attracting skilled labour is the major challenge of operating in country Victoria. As plant
upgrades lead to greater automation, Aggarwal is looking to hire people with computer, accounting and
export marketing skills in a finite employment market.

"In constantly upgrading our plant and equipment, some jobs become redundant while others are
created," Aggarwal says. "For instance, we saved 1200 labour days a year by replacing boilers with
technology. We constantly watch our operating costs."

BELLAMY'S ORGANIC

Founded in Launceston in 2004, Bellamy's produces certified organic baby formula and food. After
posting double-digit revenue growth for the past six years, Bellamy's listed on the ASX on August 5,
2014. Shares in the initial public offering were issued for $1 and the stock closed at $1.35 on August 13.
Apart from selling products to Australian grocery stores, Bellamy's exports to China, Singapore,
Malaysia, Vietnam and New Zealand. The company has lifted revenue from $17 million in the 2012
financial year to an estimated $48 million for the year to June 30, 2014. Profit in 2014 was an estimated
$2.6 million. Bellamy's employs 32 full-time staff.

Bellamy's marketing manager Ben Lovitt says innovative product design, sustainable organic supply
chains, specialised distribution and a determination to succeed in a food industry niche are behind
company growth.

"Organic foodstuffs are non-genetically modified and are produced without chemical pesticides,
herbicides or fertilisers," Lovitt says. "We believe buyers of Bellamy's Organic products recognise our
commitment to sourcing the highest quality ingredients."

Page220of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Lovitt says product development is key to driving future growth. "We just released our organic
ready-to-go milk drink range, the first Bellamy's product created specifically for ages 3-plus," he says.
"We plan to grow sustainably without compromising the Bellamy's Organic quality offering."
Being based in regional Australia has enabled the company to develop strong business relationships.
Launceston is big enough to draw on local talent and resources. The disadvantage, Lovitt says, is the
extra plane leg to overseas markets. However, he says export markets are vital to company growth due
to their size.

"We can't escape that domestic opportunity is limited by the number of children born or arriving in
Australia each year," he says.

Finalists of the BRW and GE Capital Mid-Market Awards 2014 have been announced. Join us to
celebrate the winners at our exclusive awards evening on Thursday August 28 at the MCA Sydney. Click
here to purchase tickets.

CO

IN

NS

RE

gecapt : General Electric Capital Corporation | tapufl : Bellamy s Australia Ltd | gnelc : General Electric
Company
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150104 : Sales Financing | ibabyf :
Baby Food | ibnk : Banking/Credit | icnp : Consumer Goods | ifinal : Financial Services | ifood : Food
Products
c312 : External Markets | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact
: Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | tasman : Tasmania | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania

PUB Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
AN

Document BRW0000020140814ea8e00002

Page221of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.