Letters

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Letters
Letters

1,271 words
16 July 2014
Weekly Times
HERWEK
WeeklyTimes
21
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Blown away by policy on wind power WIND farms are great for drought-proofing farms, contributing
rates and community funding to local communities, providing employment and adding visual amenity to
landscapes “Wind turbines in turmoil” (WT, July 9).

Combined with their ability to push the wholesale price of power down and have peak activity in times
of peak demand, they tick so many boxes.

The Bailleau Government’s planning restrictions are dumb policy, as is any suggestion of winding back
the renewable energy target.

Victoria deserves a more progressive government.

Sandra Hawkins, Ballarat

Government has foot on the gas FUNNY how government wants to make drilling for gas easier, but
make it harder to install renewable energy. Not hard to work out who is running our country.

Mary Norman, NSW

Slap in face for sheep breeders THE comments of MlA’s program manager of eating quality research,
Alex Ball, are an insult to those breeders who have been working hard to improve flocks and
operations over the past five years “Sheep CRC tackles meaty issue” (weekly timesnow.com.au, July
9).

Why are the levies we pay to Meat and Livestock Australia being used to undermine our industry and
make us feel like we’re achieving nothing?

Brendan Mansbridge, Eugowra, NSW
Something’s off in milk venture DARE I suggest we need a fresh look at the financials in the $160
million invested in Coles’ fresh milk venture “A fresh look at milk deals” (WT, July 9).
What’s with the $40 million blow out? Where’s the accountability? Payment structures that have
suppliers in NSW on contracted fixed flat milk price of $7.50kg milk solids while Victorian counterparts
vary as low as $4 in the spring to a weighted average of $6kg/MS.
I doubt the NSW milk is going into the Melbourne Coles factory. Dividing our supplier base and cross
subsidisation is destroying our co-operative. It’s about time our chairman and board of directors took
the reigns of responsibility and be held accountable.

Irene Walker,Allambee South

MG payments go from top down IN response to Ben Croatto “Letters” (WT, July 2), Murray Goulburn
has also changed its pricing system this year. Instead of a base price with two premium increases of 20

Page243of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.cents/kg of MS each, it now starts its price at the top premium and then has deductions from there
down.

Therefore MG’s opening price of $6kg/MS is no more than last year’s opening price of $5.60kg/MS.

Also they will probably be using this-so called $0.40kg/MS increase towards their promise to suppliers
of a $1kg/MS price increase from their restructuring of the company.

John Gledhill, Pompapiel
It’s not easy to support Australia I TRY to buy Aussie-owned and produced product. But please can
you make the labelling more consumer friendly?

This is ridiculous, the government should be doing everything in its power to help Aussie farmers and
producers. One day we will be importing everything.

How stupid is that? Australia may not be able to compete with cheap imported clothing, textiles etc, but
we should be able to grow and support our own food bowl for ourselves and export. We produce great
stuff. I don’t want overseas second-rate product here.

Julie Coulthard, Faraday

So why are we importing food?

I FIND it hard to understand why Australia needs to import food when we are capable of growing what
we need “Time for fresh assault on labelling” (Herald Sun, July10).

I was a citrus farmer in the 1980s and had my produce refused at the packing shed because there was
a glut of Brazilian concentrate on the juice market. I guess big business comes before any other
considerations these days, so why should agriculture be any different? If we have to suffer imported
(often inferior) food, then the law should guarantee we know where it came from so we can choose to
buy or not.

It would appear we are following the British model of destroying our food production and choosing to
import fruit and vegetables.

Virginia Turner, Central Victoria

Time for closer look at ATVs NEVER mind sales, it would be nice to see independent engineering
examinations of ATVs on the market “ATV top spot in dispute” (weeklytimesnow. com.au, July 9).

Sales data implies the brands are of equivalent quality which does not reflect the facts, according to
professional (mechanics) and anecdotal opinions.

Stuart Dunbar, Yarra Valley

A little boost for bioenergy BIOENERGY is great, and beats wind and solar hands down “New markets
win straw poll” (WT, July 9).

If we want a reliable supply of energy, the government should start subsidising farmers to produce
more straw.

Peter Masters, Clunes

Let’s return to bipartisan action IT is sometimes forgotten the “carbon tax” was introduced with the
support of conservative independent MPs Rob Oakeshott and Tony Windsor. It is also forgotten
Malcolm Turnbull, when leader of the Liberals, accepted the science of climate change and his party
had a bipartisan approach supporting Kevin Rudd’s emissions trading scheme until he was defeated by
Tony Abbott by one vote.

The big failure of the Labor Government was to explain why the carbon tax was necessary and this
was cynically exploited by the radical and reactionary wing of the conservative parties.

The tax was a small, perhaps even token, effort to reduce our carbon emissions which are contributing
to climate change. Mr Abbott ran a scare campaign on the tax.

Labor could, and perhaps should have, run a far more realistic scare campaign on the dire
consequences of climate change now and in the future.

Page244of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Why then is a problem so recently accepted by the Liberals and Nationals in a bipartisan fashion now
so divisive? Is it because the Abbott faction owe the big multinational (and foreign-owned) coal and
CSG companies a favour?

Farmers have the most to gain from effective policies against climate change and the most to lose in
the long term if these policies are ineffectual.

It is time for the major parties to return to a bipartisan approach and to treat the problem with the
seriousness it deserves.

Peter Gardner, Bairnsdale

Shearers shamed by the rabble WHAT a disgrace to our shearing industry, those so-called shearers
and the contractors who employ them. I have been a shearer for 34 years and my father, grandfather,
great grandfather and also my son, “Barnaby defends sheep industry” (weekly timesnow.com.au, July
11).

My father was a contractor for 30 years and would sack anyone if they attempted anything like that.
Shame on you wannabe shearers and contractors for employing them.

PETA is more than welcome to come and see how I and my mates operate. We are not all like those
so few who try to tarnish us professional shearers. Simon Dudman, Ararat

Other pest do more damage IF anyone is concerned about flora damage in the parks then do
something about the other pests like pigs, blackberries, deer, rabbits, foxes and wild dogs; brumbies
don’t do anywhere near the damage of any of the above species “Brumby cull call” (weeklytimesnow.
com.au, July 12).

And especially not the area we are talking about.

And remind me of the last time a tourist went to see any of those other species. Seaghdha Bailey,
Tumbarumba

POLL RESULTS FOREIGN INVESTMENT Should Australia’s foreign investment threshold be lifted for
China? Yes 22% No 78% 104 votes to noon yesterday weeklytimesnow.com.au THIS WEEKShould
PETA have have acted immediately on animal cruelty concerns?

IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

i163 : Electric Power Generation - Alternative Energy | iwind : Wind Energy | i16 : Electricity/Gas
Utilities | i16101 : Electric Power Generation | ieutil : Electric Utilities | iutil : Utilities
nlet : Letters | nlte : Letters to the Editor | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E
Exclusion Filter | niwe : IWE Filter | nrgn : Routine General News
austr : Australia | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document HERWEK0020140715ea7g00037

Page245of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.