$1b food giant takeover gets nod

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
$1b food giant takeover gets nod

328 words
22 October 2014
Gold Coast Bulletin
GCBULL
GoldCoast
24
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

THE Federal Government has approved the foreign takeover of Australia’s largest foodmaker,
Goodman Fielder.
The Foreign Investment Review board says it has no objection to the $1.4 billion takeover by
Singapore agribusiness Wilmar and Hong-Kong investment firm First Pacific.

But the deal is awaiting regulatory approval from China and last month the company warned that
process was likely to take longer than expected.

Shareholders had been due to vote on the proposal by the end of December, but that meeting has been
pushed back until the first quarter of next year.

The deal also needs the go-ahead from New Zealand authorities and Goodman Fielder said the bidders
were continuing to work on obtaining the necessary approvals.

“Goodman Fielder advises that Wilmar and First Pacific are continuing to progress the other regulatory
approvals,” the company said.
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission cleared the path for the purchase last month,
saying it would not oppose the takeover.

One of the concerns the ACCC had about the deal was the possibility a takeover could help push up
the price of vegetable oils in Australia.
Goodman owns brands including Crisco and Gold’N Canola, while Wilmar supplies imported packaged
oils which supermarkets sell under their private labels.

But ACCC chairman Rod Sims said Wilmar and Goodman Fielder would continue to face competition
from rival oil suppliers if the takeover were to proceed.
“Packaged vegetable oil can be readily imported from international suppliers,” he said.
“Wilmar currently supplies oil from its offshore facilities and there are other international suppliers
capable of supplying the Australian market.” Goodman Fielder’s well-known food brands include
Helga’s bread, Meadowfresh milk and yoghurt, and White Wings baking products Its purchase is the
second major investment play in Australia for Wilmar.In 2010 it struck a deal with CSR to buy for $1.75
billion its Sucrogen business, Australia’s largest producer of raw sugar.

CO
IN
NS
RE

fdgl : Goodman Fielder Ltd
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp : Consumer Goods
gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

Page258of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB
AN

News Ltd.
Document GCBULL0020141022eaam0001u

Page259of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.