Norm McCleary, the midnight pegger, at centre of NT cash-for-documents claims

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Norm McCleary, the midnight pegger, at centre of NT cash-for-documents claims

By James Purtill
689 words
29 August 2014
Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC) News
ABCNEW
English
(c) 2014 Australian Broadcasting Corporation

The man at the centre of cash-for-documents allegations in the Northern Territory is a West Australian
mining entrepreneur dubbed "the midnight pegger".
In 2006 Norm McCleary masterminded an audacious midnight claim to a pair of billion-dollar uranium
sites in Central Australia.

That year a rising yellowcake price and a new Australian agreement to sell uranium to China led to a
scramble to secure uranium supply.

The Pamela and Angela deposits 25 kilometres south of Alice Springs were estimated to be worth up to
$2 billion.
More than 40 international mining companies had expressed interest in the land, with restrictions on
pegging to expire at midnight on December 6.

As the date approached, the Perth-based miner spent up to $30,000 and flew people from Darwin and
the USA to assist him with pegging the lease, according to his testimony in a subsequent criminal trial.
On December 6 Mr McCleary's application to enter the land was knocked back by the mining warden.

That evening Mr McCleary and a crew of six men synchronised watches and drove out to the sites in a
convoy of four-wheel drives.

They began pegging both sites on the stroke of midnight.

"We were set up and the moment it turned 12, or about a nanosecond after, we banged in those first
sticks and took up seven leases immediately," he said.

"[The other companies] did theirs from their computers somewhere else in the world.

"I got out of bed and did the job."
In just a few hours they staked a claim to an estimated 12,000 tonnes of uranium.
Supreme Court battle to secure billion-dollar leases
Mr McCleary said his stake should take priority because it came hours before a flood of email
applications from other companies.

When his claim was denied, Mr McCleary sought an injunction in the NT Supreme Court preventing the
government from deciding who would be granted exploration rights until his case was heard.

He claimed in court documents the department did not follow correct procedure when dealing with his
application and unfairly denied consent for him to enter the land.
Meanwhile, with the verdict pending, resources company Segway paid Mr McCleary $220,000 and a 15
per cent stake in the company whether he won or lost the case.

Page77of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Justice Trevor Reilly found the group had failed to seek permission to enter the site from the mining
warden and were actually trespassing.

"I do not accept he believed he only needed approval to enter the land for the physical activity of pegging
the land," he said.

"The plaintiff sought to exploit what it saw as a loophole in the scheme in order to obtain for itself an
advantage over others who had an interest in the mineral potential of the land.

"The decision of the warden, which served to avoid that consequence, was consistent with the objects of
the [law]. It allowed the value of the mineral resources concerned to be maximised."

Mr McCleary appealed. He lost his final legal bid in October 2007.

In February 2008 Cameco and Paladin Resources were approved the right to explore the Pamela and
Angela deposits.

Maley represents McCleary in criminal trial
Mr McCleary and his company McCleary Investments faced a further 28 criminal charges for pegging
claims without seeking the prior authority of the mining warden.

His solicitor in the Darwin Magistrates Court trial was Peter Maley, the future magistrate. His counsel was
the prominent Darwin QC, Jon Tippett.

The criminal trial revealed the Supreme Court civil proceedings may have cost Mr McCleary as much as
$400,000.

Chief Magistrate Jenny Blokland found Mr McCleary guilty of all 28 charges.

"I accept his submission approval to enter the land was made in expectation approval could be granted,"
she said.

"I don't accept however he could have possibly thought that in this situation it would be automatic.

"She also said I have come to the view it could be more wishful thinking on behalf of Mr McCleary than
genuine belief."

i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
gpol : Domestic Politics | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations
austr : Australia | nterry : Northern Territory | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
peter

IN
NS
RE
IPD
PUB Australian Broadcasting Corporation
AN

Document ABCNEW0020140829ea8t000b9

Page78of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.