Deals struck a world apart

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Deals struck a world apart

TERRY McCRANN
655 words
12 June 2014
Daily Telegraph
DAITEL
Telegraph
31
English
Copyright 2014 News Ltd. All Rights Reserved

Two moves on opposite sides of the world fired the share prices of Aquila Resources and Ramsay
Health Care yesterday. They capture the opposite dynamics driving corporate Australia and, so, the
same opportunities — for investors. These are, in short: Invest locally in resources that are feeding
Chinese growth or use the high value of the Australian dollar to buy into offshore businesses,
effectively at a discount.

Ramsay used the low interest rates in global financial markets to borrow up and so get a deal that is
immediately accretive for its earnings per share. The ordinary Aussie is using low interest rates to
borrow big to buy property; the canny company is buying profit-generating offshore growth businesses.

Ramsay is buying into what is the developed world’s only major growth field: old people, or more
specifically old people who will increasingly fall ill.

The Aquila play is the more conventional, but also the more confusing. It’s long been a sitting duck for a
takeover battle, owning a big iron ore deposit in the Pilbara and a high-quality coking coal deposit in
the Bowen Basin.
Aqulia chairman Tony Poli and his company co-founder Charles Bass control 40 per cent between
them. That’s the key point. There’s no way they could sustain their shareholdings in the context of the
$5 billion cost of developing the two projects. They could deliver control to someone with the money, or
partner them. The first to pounce was China’s Baosteel Resources, which teamed up with rail group
Aurizon to bid $1.4 billion.
Baosteel, which starts with 20 per cent of Aquila, would take a big chunk of the ore, along with project
partner South Korea’s Posco; Aurizon would build the port and rail infrastructure, operate and perhaps
own it. Yesterday, West Australian infrastructure group Mineral Resources bought 12 per cent of Aquila
at $3.75, well above the $3.40 Baosteel-Aurizon offer. The move ensures a deal will be done.
The move by Ramsay to buy a majority controlling stake in the biggest private hospital group in France
is a company-changing and company-making deal.

Ramsay, our biggest private hospital operator, generates more than 70 per cent of its revenue in
Australia.

It gets about 10 per cent from France, 12 per cent in Britain and with the rest coming from a joint
venture in Malaysia and Indonesia.

Now, French revenue will leap to 40 per cent of the group total, Britain will fall to 8 per cent and the
Australian share will be watered down to less than 50 per cent.

Inexorably the French business will grow bigger than the Australian one. There is plenty of scope for
both acquisitions but above all organic growth. France’s population is growing at 0.6 per cent a year;

Page187of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.but the number over 60 is increasing by 2.1 per cent a year. In Australia’s its 1.6 and 3.0 per cent but
there are 15.2 million French people already over 60, and just 4.5 million here.

What adds to France’s appeal for a private hospital operator is the way the public and private systems
— and critically, insurance — overlap.

Every French person is covered, Aussie Medicare-style, by the public system, which, according to
Ramsay, picks up around 75 per cent of any hospital tab.

But an extraordinary 96 per cent of the population also has private insurance to cover the rest of the bill,
as against the low-30s per cent in Australia.
A critical component is the financing. Ramsay will fund it entirely with debt. Clearly, the acquisition will
take some digesting — it does increase the company by nearly 50 per cent.But it gives it a very
attractive mix of Aussie dollar and euro income and a dominant position in different but equally good
growth markets.

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

ramhop : Ramsay Health Care Ltd | aqures : Aquila Resources Ltd.
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i951 : Health Care/Life Sciences | i95107 : Hospital Care | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | igoldm : Gold Ore Mining | imet : Mining/Quarrying | iphhp : Healthcare Provision
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document DAITEL0020140611ea6c0004i

Page188of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.