CEO sees silver lining in gloom at PacBrands

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
CEO sees silver lining in gloom at PacBrands

BLAIR SPEEDY, Retail
505 words
11 June 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
19
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

CLOTHING and homewares company Pacific Brands has blamed a collapse in consumer sentiment
for its decision to cut full-year earnings guidance by more than 14 per cent, as sales to retail customers
suffer from a warmer than expected winter.
The company behind brands such as Bonds underwear, Sheridan sheets, Hard Yakka workwear and
Berlei bras has forecast annual earnings before interest and tax of between $90 million and $93m
before one-off items, down from previous forecasts for EBIT of $105m and as much as 27 per cent
below last financial year.

The downgrade comes less than four months after the company announced a $242m writedown
against the value of its workwear division as a slowdown in Australia’s manufacturing and resources
sector translated into reduced demand.

“The immediate issues for us have been the shift in consumer sentiment, which is the thing I’ve been
most surprised by; the weather certainly hasn’t helped, with at least two major retailers pushing back
their June sale activity because they haven’t got the start to winter that they needed, and the overall
performance of the discount department store sector has been troublesome,” said chief executive John
Pollaers.

Shares in PacBrands fell 5c to 51c yesterday, the biggest one-day fall since the workwear writedown in
February.
Mr Pollaers said he was making progress with his strategy to reduce the company’s reliance on
wholesale earnings — which have suffered as many of its traditional customers have moved to source
private-label products directly from offshore suppliers — and increase earnings from higher-margin
retail channels.

“The good news is that our own retail business is performing exceptionally well, our online is performing
beyond anyone’s expectations, new categories are doing well and even our international business is
starting to show some interesting signs,” he said.

“It’s a story of two halves — the wholesale world is really challenging, but the new channels and new
product areas are actually performing well — although the net picture is that consumer sentiment,
weather and discount department stores are the challenge.” Since the strategy was introduced 12
months ago Mr Pollaers said the company had opened nearly 30 Bonds stores and expanded them to
include children’s wear, rebadged 40 outlets as Bonds stores, and launched sleepwear, bras,
activewear and babywear, expanded distribution in China and opened stores in Indonesia, where it
was also selling via British retailer John Lewis.
Meanwhile PacBrands had accelerated cost reduction measures — which would lead to one-off
restructuring costs of $25m-$30m in the second half — and in April appointed Macquarie to conduct a
further strategic review, with the aim of reducing the company’s tail of underperforming brands.

Page200of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“We have a larger portfolio than we need for this business, and as we have worked on our relationships
with retailers it has become clear where our star performers are, which obviously raises questions
around some of the balance,” Mr Pollaers said.

criterion P23

CO
IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

pacbra : Pacific Brands Ltd
iclt : Clothing/Textiles | icnp : Consumer Goods
c151 : Earnings | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | cslmc : Senior Level Management | c41 :
Management Issues
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140610ea6b00047

Page201of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.