Buru close to deal with cornerstone partner

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Buru close to deal with cornerstone partner

PAUL GARVEY, Energy
346 words
19 September 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
23
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

BURU Energy is on the cusp of a deal it hopes will reinvigorate efforts to tap the potential of its huge
acreage position in the north of Western Australia.
Buru entered a trading halt yesterday pending an announcement “in relation to a proposed equity
raising including to a new strategic cornerstone shareholder”. Sources estimated Buru needed
around $50 million to step up its exploration campaign.

The company’s efforts to progress its permits in WA’s Canning Basin have suffered a series of
setbacks in the past 18 months and its shares have fallen by more than 70 per cent over that time.

The move into a trading halt sparked a flurry of speculation about the identity of the new cornerstone
partner.

On Wednesday, Buru executive chairman Eric Streitberg told an investor breakfast in Perth the
company had engaged in “robust discussions” with a number of iron ore miners over possible gas
supply from its potentially huge but remote projects.
Those comments prompted some observers to flag iron ore miner Fortescue Metals as the possible
partner. Fortescue has previously expressed its desire to fuel much of its operations through gas
rather than diesel, and is believed to have looked at a number of gas investment opportunities
around the state.

Fortescue has also previously considered picking up exposure to the Canning Basin through a deal
that would have seen it become a cornerstone investor in ASX-listed Oil Basins in January last year,
but the deal fell over soon after it was announced.

Buru has already partnered with Japan’s Mitsubishi Corp in the Canning Basin, while US group
Apache Energy agreed to farm into a portion of the landholding last year.
The Australian understands Buru had been close to a broader deal with Apache Energy earlier this
year, but the deal was scuttled when activist shareholders successfully agitated for the group to pull
back from assets outside North America.At least one Chinese group is understood to have looked
closely at a deal with Buru.

NS

RE
PUB
AN

c1522 : Share Price Movement/Disruptions | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News |
ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry
News Filter
austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140918ea9j0001m

Page17of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.