Bread for the world

Bread for the world

HD
WC 731 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

7 December 2014
Philippine Daily Inquirer
AIWPHI
English
Copyright 2014 Inquirer Interactive, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

TD

          “Are you Filipina?” The question is out of courtesy as there was no mistaking the accent behind the
Australian, the brown smiling face, the manner about Jocelyn Cabel Muller.   As it turns out she is a GI, a
genuine Ilocana, blown Down Under via Hong Kong. I had come to Abhi's Bread looking for a loaf of fruit
and nut sourdough, all its dark brown, chewy yumminess cut only by the crunch of walnuts, reminiscent of
weekends in Germany.   The open shelves are stocked with loaves and rolls in six mix rye, wholemeal
and seed, organic white, sesame and sunflower, rustic ciabatta.   In the cool glass cabinets are cakes and
pastries. A gingerbread house with white snow icing stands ready for a Christmas table.   Jocelyn
apologizes, they're out of fruit and nut, and suggests an organic polenta and sultana roll. OK, but even
then, my eyes are straying to the gluten-free chocolate mudcake with ganache topping and then to a loaf
of my friend Kerry's favorite spelt sourdough.

  Ever since Kerry told me about Abhi's, I knew I had to scour for it in South Fremantle. It ticked all the
boxes: Organic, artisan, authentic European, locally grown grain, off-the-tourist track.   I order a polenta
roll and an almond croissant. As she rings up the sale, Jocelyn says, “Well, I have part of a fruit and nut
loaf that I can give you.” Was she sure? “No worries, in fact, if you want this other loaf from yesterday, I'll
give them both to you!” The loaves sell at A$9.80 each and the ones she was holding up seemed like they
just had only an end sliced off.   In a bakery that had achieved cult status, here was a Filipina gaily
handing out loaves as if they were hers to give away.   Jocelyn is married to the bakery owner, Heinz, who
learned to bake in his native Switzerland.   Heinz bought Abhi's in 1999, making bread entirely by hand.
From being its only full-time worker aided only by a part-time employee 15 years ago, Heinz now has
Jocelyn who knows both the baking and the business side.   On their payroll are 42 full-time and casual
employees from Australia, France, Germany, Indonesia, Taiwan, Italy, New Zealand and the Philippines,
many of them students. They fill three shifts over 24/7 to meet wholesale orders and the smaller demand
at the bakeshop.   Jocelyn and Heinz met in 2006 through a dating site boasting “two million Fiilipino
beauties.” By then a widow, Jocelyn was working as a nanny in Hong Kong to support her two young
children.   After the initial texts and e-mails, Heinz visited Hong Kong and in less than a year, Jocelyn
was on a two-week holiday in Australia. “I knew he was a baker, but wasn't sure if he really owned Abhi's.
So why Abhi's and not Heinz's Bread?”   Heinz's story apparently checked out. Besides, Jocelyn says,
there was no job security working as a domestic helper in Hong Kong.   When they can take time off, the
Mullers have two additional countries to visit. Her son now works in a nursing home in Taiwan. Her
daughter works in Korea, speaks the language fluently, and is married to a South Korean with whom she
has a son.   The steady stream of customers takes Jocelyn away from our table. She returns with a
cuppa, proud of her barista skills. The cappuccino has a cap of velvety crema, the coffee smooth.   What's
the secret of your being together, partners in life and partners in business, I ask Heinz. “She talks a lot
about the business,” Heinz says, “and I just walk by.” Heinz looks at her fondly. “She is very funny and
cheeky and makes a joke of everything.”   “That sounds like a Swiss accent!” a woman exclaims with
delight as she enters the shop. She and Heinz switch to Swiss German and soon she is showing him
pictures of gum paste flowers made by her daughter. They agree to ask the teenager to consider selling
her work to the bakery.   And so grows the family—and it's not only because Abhi's makes good bread.  
Abhi's Bread is on Facebook: www.facebook.com/AbhisBread    

IN

RE

i419 : Bread/Bakery Products | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp : Consumer Goods | ifood : Food
Products
hkong : Hong Kong | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | china : China | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz
: Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

Page65of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IPC Abhi's Bread, Jocelyn Cabel Muller, Cakes and Pastries
PUB Inquirer Interactive, Inc.
AN

Document AIWPHI0020141207eac70001u

Page66of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.