Fortescue slashes project spending

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Fortescue slashes project spending

Peter Ker
460 words
29 November 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
5
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Resources - Miner seeks funding alternatives
Fortescue Metals Group will halve its spending on projects after taking the knife to its $US1.3 billion
capital budget for the 2015 financial year.

On Friday, the miner joined Rio Tinto and BHP Billiton in aggressively cutting capital, with the
Perth-based miner now set to spend just $US650 million this financial year.

But in an attempt to distance Fortescue from the two major miners, who have defended export
expansions amid weak commodity prices, Mr Power said the cuts were made because; "In the current
environment it is prudent to defer investing additional capital that increases supply into the market".

The spending cut will see Fortescue's exploration budget savaged, and the deferral of a $US100
million detrital processing plant, which was expected to treat 5 million tonnes per year from mid 2015
onward.
The miner will also look for cheaper ways to complete the purchase of a group of very large ore
carriers, which are designed to lower freight costs to China.

In a statement to the ASX after the close of trading, Fortescue said alternative funding or ownership
models for the large vessels were being investigated.

Fortescue chief executive Nev Power said the spending cuts would improve cashflow while
maintaining export guidance for the 2015 financial year at between 155 million tonnes and 160
million tonnes.
"We will maximise output from our world class mining and infrastructure assets and remain focused
on factors within our control to ensure the efficiency of operations and cash discipline to continue the
program of early, voluntary debt repayment," he said.

Fortescue said it would complete the construction of its fifth berth at Port Hedland but would look to do
so more efficiently.
Iron ore prices were fetching $US69.98 per tonne on Friday, less than half the price they were
fetching on December 9, 2013.
It is the second time Fortescue responded quickly to a fall in the iron ore price, after it halted an
expansion project in September 2012.
Despite rumours the miner may close its Cloudbreak mine in response to weak iron ore prices,
Fortescue last night insisted it would not be closing Cloudbreak.

Fortescue shares rose 8¢ to close the week at $2.94.

Page254of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The cuts will also deferral of every operating costs, including some maintenance, and that comes after
Fortescue earlier this year announced the deferment of some truck engine rebuilds.
Upon visiting Fortescue's Pilbara operations in October, Deutsche analyst Paul Young noted that
while such measures reduce near term costs, they "can't last forever".
Earlier on Friday Rio revealed its 2014 capital spend would be closer to $US8.5 million, rather than
the $US11 million flagged in February.

CO
IN
RE
PUB
AN

ambol : Fortescue Metals Group Ltd
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020141128eabt00031

Page255of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.