One out of the box

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
One out of the box

JANE HARPER
756 words
18 July 2014
Herald-Sun
HERSUN
HeraldSun
57
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

CHAT ROOM The visionary behind Kogan.com says online and bricks and mortar retail are worlds
apart, writes Jane Harper

HE’S been labelled brash, lucky and a flash in the pan.

Fortunately, Ruslan Kogan has 320 million reasons for the business world to take him seriously.

“A few years ago people just thought: ‘Here’s a guy doing something online’,” Kogan says.

“Now we’re at the size where our competition is monitoring our activity. “When we run a deal they react
to it.” Debuting on the BRW Rich List this year just eight years after launching his plan to sell TVs
online, the 31-year-old has shown that a sharp business mind lies behind the jeans and T-shirt.

Kogan.com has ballooned since it launched in 2006, selling first televisions and then other consumer
electronics.
The online business — which recently sold its three millionth item — may still be known best as a
technology retailer, but now competes in a huge range of categories.
The number of products available on the site has spiked from 450 last year to more than 19,000, while
the group has launched a suite of 15 private brands, including Fortis sports equipment, Komodo
camping gear and Ovela homewares.

“We did $300,000 turnover in the first year. Now by midday on any given day we turn over more than
we did in that whole first year,” Kogan says.

“It took us six-and-a-half years to deliver the first one million products and a year-and-a-half to deliver
the next two million. That puts the growth of the business into perspective.” Kogan is perhaps the only
person not surprised he has managed to amass a $320 million fortune from an idea people were lining
up to tell him wouldn’t work.

“If you asked me then if I thought it was going to be as big as it is today, I would have said no,” he says.

“But I looked at the situation and saw it was going to work. When I started the business and from day
one TVs started selling, I knew it was going to work.” Thinking outside the box is a business cliche, but
for Kogan it appears to come almost as second nature.
He famously convinced a major Chinese factory to take his first small order by rewriting their
English-language marketing materials for free to demonstrate value in the business relationship.

And even while studying business systems at Monash University, he realised the best way to snap up a
sought-after parking spot was to offer students in the car park a lift to their vehicle.

Page116of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.But Kogan says it’s not unusual for the traditional retail sector to underestimate the planning and
execution required to run an online company.

“People think online retailers just sit around clicking ‘refresh’ on their bank account all day, but there’s a
lot of work put into our supply chain and business to sustain the prices,” he says.

“Traditional and online retail are completely different, and traditional retailers don’t have a clue about
what online retail does. In the same way as I don’t understand bricks-and-mortar retail.

“They just assume we are cheaper because of store rents, and don’t understand the massive
investment in IT, servers, system architects, digital marketers, and the number of people involved in
making the online offer happen.” While bricks-and-mortar retailers are scrambling to jump on the online
bandwagon, Kogan remains unconvinced.

“I personally don’t think ‘omnichannel’ retail can even exist,” he says. “A lot of bricks-and-mortar
retailers are doing it because their shareholders want to hear the buzzwords, which are ‘omnichannel’,
‘digital’ and ‘cloud’.

“But I would say they’re wasting time and resources and should concentrate on developing a unique
advantage and pleasurable experience in-store.

“Bricks-and-mortar retailers have so many advantages over online, such as being able to taste and feel
the products and talk to experts. They just have to wake up to that.” But despite Kogan’s success, he
says negativity from government and industry leaders discourages other young people from treading
the same path, with Australia losing too many skilled youngsters to IT jobs in the US.“An entrepreneur
is still seen as an evil fat guy in a penthouse stroking a tiger,” he says. “If we can embrace
entrepreneurship and that’s the message from leadership, it will benefit everyone.”

NS
RE
PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document HERSUN0020140717ea7i0002x

Page117of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.