PRESS RELEASE: Billing Platform will be working with Energy Australia

HD PRESS RELEASE: Billing Platform will be working with Energy Australia
WC 479 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

28 October 2014
Platts Commodity News
PLATT
English
Copyright 2014. Platts. All Rights Reserved.

London (Billing Platform)--28Oct2014 08:00 This press release is published as it was received DENVER,
Oct. 28 2014 /PRNewswire/ -- Billing Platform is excited to announce that they will be working with Energy
Australia to provide billing and order management for a variety of new, consumer and business products
and services. Energy Australia is a privately held, Australian energy provider owned by Hong
Kong-based CLP Group. EA has consumer and business clientele numbering over 2.8 million, with a $5
billion portfolio of assets. The company offers a large suite of services - including heating, cooling,
electricity & gas, hot water systems, and solar panel installations. Energy Australia was originally founded
in 1995, and has since matured into a leader within its space. Its $5 billion portfolio includes power plants,
gas plants, mines and wind farms spread across Victoria, New South Wales, and South Australia.

The company invests a substantial amount of recourses in sustainability through its dynamic Climate
Change strategy ? sourcing much of its power from wind energy farms and providing solar panel
installations. Billing Platform's powerful billing engine will be responsible for processing billing transactions
related to Energy Australia's business and residential services supporting Orders, Sales, Installations, and
Maintenance. This new system also integrates with Salesforce.com to provide end-to-end, streamlined
quote-to-cash-to-support processes, helping EA meet customer demands in the most efficient way
possible. Billing Platform CTO, Leo Solomon Comments: "Along with core billing and rating functionality,
the platform centralizes inventory management, purchase orders, and invoice & statement generation and
delivery in an efficient, automated set of processes. The Platform's unique customization capabilities
provide EA with the ability to implement the exact business scenarios they need quickly and efficiently
making their new billing and support system highly adaptable to change." Billing Platform is proud to be
part of an initiative that will help contribute to a sustainable future, and support local Australian
communities by creating jobs and helping customers save on energy costs. About Billing PlatformBilling
platform is the leader in enterprise cloud billing, providing solutions for the full spectrum of billing use
cases across all industries. The company is devoted to inspiring the creative thought that drives
innovation through complete client satisfaction. The platform is flexible enough to quickly conform to any
charging model or business process, and provides companies with the ability to maximize efficiency and
improve their bottom line ? giving them the power to evolve with ever-changing global, technological, and
competitive trends. Billing Platform is committed to empowering its customers with the capacity to sell and
monetize exactly the way they need to, when they need to. For more information please visit
www.billingplatform.com?or contact us at 888-348-8868. Logo -
http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20141027/154691LOGO SOURCE Billing Platform

i163 : Renewable Energy Generation | iwind : Wind Energy | i1 : Energy | i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities |
i16101 : Electric Power Generation | ieutil : Electric Utilities | iutil : Utilities
c22 : New Products/Services | npress : Press Releases | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

TD

IN

NS

RE
IPD 0105
PUB Platts, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies Inc.
AN Document PLATT00020141028eaas000xk

Page127of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.