AUD Under Pressure Ahead of Australia Policy Statement -- Market Talk

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

AUD Under Pressure Ahead of Australia Policy Statement -- Market Talk

1,418 words
8 August 2014
06:27
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

16:27 EDT - AUD/USD remains under pressure after a weaker-than-expected Australian Jobs data
released Thursday. Focus now turns to the RBA's monetary policy statement and home loans data, says
Westpac currency strategist Imre Speizer. "The RBA is expected to remain on hold until August 2015,
but markets will start pricing in the tightening cycle by late 2014." Speizer adds that China's trade
balance may also drive the pair during the session. Pair last at 0.9277. Westpac expects it to be capped
at 0.9300 in the short-term. (lucy.craymer@wsj.com; @lucy_craymer)

16:25 EDT - Prospect of broader exports of ultralight oil known as condensate has had the energy
industry buzzing all summer. Producers like the idea of fetching higher prices for their output overseas,
while refiners have worried about losing a source of cheap oil. Condensate is generally thought of as
very light oil, which means it clocks in high on the industry's API Gravity scale, but not everyone agrees
on where to draw the line between condensate and crude. "Right now there's a big question about what
is defined as condensate," Plains All American (PAA) COO Harry Pefanis told analysts during a
conference call today. He added that the Delaware Basin in the Permian formation could produce up to
200K b/d of condensate once production ramps up. (alison.sider@wsj.com)

16:21 EDT - Mexican restaurant operator Alsea's (ALSEA.MX) incursion into Spain will pose only a
"minimal distraction" for the company, CEO Fabian Gosselin assures analysts who question whether
Alsea is over-extending with too many brands in too many markets. The Spanish target's management
will stay on, allowing the business to function largely independently, Gosselin says, emphasizing that
Grupo Zena was a good match for Alsea given its handling of familiar brands like Burger King and
Dominos. Alsea shares down 1.1% at MXN43.57. (amy.guthrie@wsj.com)

16:19 EDT - Zoetis (ZTS), largest maker of animal drugs and vaccines by sales, appears open to
considering a so-called "tax inversion" transaction with a non-US company to lower its tax rate. Asked
about this on Tuesday's 2Q earnings call, ZTS CEO Juan Ramon Alaix responded: "So in terms of M&A,
also this tax inversion opportunity, we will continue exploring any opportunity that will provide a reduction
in terms of effective tax rate -- something that definitely we will see the opportunities that exist in the
market -- and we will decide based on these opportunities," according to a transcript. JPMorgan notes
that a tax inversion would be a "clear opportunity," given ZTS's current effective tax rate of about 29%.
(peter.loftus@wsj.com)
16:16 EDT - Advent International is revisiting an old flame. The private-equity firm is buying half of the
stake that Lululemon Athletica's (LULU) founder Chip Wilson owns. Mr. Wilson has been criticizing the
athletic apparel maker publicly in recent months. Advent is no stranger to the yoga pant maker. The firm
was a minority LULU investor in 2005 when the Canadian company had just over 30 stores. When
Advent cashed out, it proved a big win for the firm. LULU closed 2.4% lower at $39.03.
(dana.mattioli@wsj.com; @DanaMattioli)
16:15 EDT - A reinterpretation of the US ban on oil exports has many companies wondering how the
government's policy applies to them. Last week a tanker of unrefined ultralight oil known as condensate
left Texas for South Korea, and more cargos are in the works. Plains All American Pipeline (PAA) has
equipment in Gardendale, Tex. that can stabilize and distill 80k barrels a day of condensate, with plans
to expand that capacity to 120k barrels a day. Company executives tell analysts they're confident the
operation's condensate output would meet the government's new processing standards, but there's

Page201of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.enough uncertainty to warrant caution. "The only thing that might get in our way is political arbitrariness,"
CEO Greg Armstrong says. (alison.sider@wsj.com)

16:13 EDT - Another rocky day for US stocks, major indexes log further declines with the Dow Industrials
sliding for the ninth time in the last 12 sessions. An early rally offered some hope that bulls could
possibly begin to turn around the recent bad patch, but once again they're unable to gain any firm
traction. Strong day for the 10-yr Treasury, yield falls about six basis points, suggesting investors prefer
safety amid geopolitical concerns with Russia over the Ukraine situation. Consumer staples and
health-care sectors lead markets lower, DJIA falls 75.07 to 16368.27, lowest close since late April.
Nasdaq Comp down 20.08 to 4334.97, and S&P 500 ends 10.67 lower at 1909.57.
(john.shipman@wsj.com)

15:58 EDT - The raw material of "Shrinky Dinks," a popular children's toy that contracts when baked is
suddenly hot stuff for robot engineers. Researchers at Harvard University and MIT said today they used
sheets of the special polystyrene plastic made for the toy kits to make an innovative self-folding robot.
When heated, the plastic folds along lines of a design etched on its surface, assembling the device
without human intervention, they say. The researchers envision a range of manufacturing applications
for their self-folding designs, from on-demand custom toys to self-assembling satellites -- and therefore a
wider potential market for such heat-shrink plastics. (lee.hotz@wsj.com)

15:52 EDT - SAP is hiring more Millennials and cozying up to startups in an effort to be "more like
Google," and make its software more user-friendly. It's a logical bet given the rise of Millennial
employees in the workforce, many of whom grew up digital and demand well-designed apps that are
both functional and easy to use. For SAP, the move is part of a larger push to simplify its offerings and
fend off nimbler startups. The company has been around for a long time, and "every year we get a lot
older," says Pat Bakey, global general manager for SAP Retail. (steven.norton@wsj.com)

15:46 EDT - The ancient art of paper-folding is inspiring new flexible construction materials, researchers
say. Cornell University researchers who've been experimenting with the geometry of origami say they've
discovered a way to structurally alter materials on cue by manipulating the way they're folded. A
common zigzag pattern called the Miura fold, often used to pack solar arrays more efficiently, can be
tuned to make a material rigid or flexible, shifting back and forth in response to pressure, they say. The
pattern can be readily etched on metal, paper or plastic. While still experimental, it's a way to give many
ordinary materials mechanical properties they don't normally have, certain to interest the construction
industry and aerospace designers. (lee.hotz@wsj.com)

15:41 EDT - Treasury prices making a steady rise in late trading, pushing the 10-year yield down nearly
6 bps. Eyes are on the 2.40% mark, below which traders say sellers will back away and let yields fall,
opening the door to 2.35%. The last time the 10-year Treasury yielded less than 2.40% was in June
2013. The note up 16/32 today, last yielding 2.419%. (cynthia.lin@wsj.com; @cynthialin_dj)

15:39 EDT - Laredo Petroleum's (LPI) 2Q miss-and-cut has shares extending their recent slide, but bull
Topeka Capital remains resolute. It notes the company's recent land acquisitions and that
horizontal-well performance remaining strong. The investment bank sees "today's selloff as a long-term
opportunity to gain exposure to a core Wolfcamp player" which holds some 145K acres. But SunTrust
notes the $203M of acquisitions "is a departure from recent strategy," though it doesn't mind the move.
LPI is down 8.9% at $23.95, putting the quarter's slide at 23%. (kevin.kingsbury@wsj.com;
@kevinkingsbury)

To contact the Market Talk Editors,
Kevin Kingsbury, 212 416-2354, kevin.kingsbury@wsj.com
Cynthia Lin, 212 416-4403, Cynthia.lin@wsj.com
John Shipman, 212 416-2181, john.shipman@wsj.com
Patrick Sullivan, 212 416-2326, Patrick.sullivan@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

August 07, 2014 16:27 ET (20:27 GMT)

CO
IN
NS

wstpac : Westpac Banking Corporation Limited
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
gpol : Domestic Politics | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | namt : All Market Talk | ndjmt : Dow
Jones Market Talk | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nfxacb
: Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class Premium News | nfxmt : Foreign Exchange

Page202of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Market Talk | nrmf : Routine Market/Financial News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir :
Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion
Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document DJDN000020140807ea8700428

RE
PUB
AN

Page203of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.