Next Capital to retain minority stake in Hirepool on listing

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Market Wrap - Street Talk
Next Capital to retain minority stake in Hirepool on listing

Edited by Sarah Thompson, Anthony Macdonald and Gretchen Friemann
386 words
2 June 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
16
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Mid-market private equity firm Next Capital is preparing to keep a minority stake in equipment rental
business Hirepool in an effort to demonstrate its confidence in the initial public offering candidate.

Brokers Deutsche Bank / Craigs Investment Partners , UBS and Macquarie Capital were finalising
pre-marketing research over the weekend.

They are expected to distribute the reports to clients later this week.

The analysts were expected to value New Zealand's Hirepool at 10 to 11 times earnings before
interest and tax, although it is hard to find a listed comparable in the region.

Other rental businesses, including Coates Hire and Hirequip (now part of Hirepool ), are also in
private hands.
The offer is expected to be worth about $300 million, and, if successful, would see
Rothschild-advised Hirepool list in both Australia and New Zealand.

There will also be a New Zealand retail offer.

The banks will tell potential investors that owner Next Capital would like to retain a "significant" 
minority stake at the IPO, which will reignite some debate about whether or not that's a good thing for
Hirepool .

The pre-marketing analyst roadshow comes after some earlier meetings with investors.
In April, Hirepool 's brokers introduced the company to fund managers in Hong Kong, Wellington,
Auckland, Sydney and Melbourne.

Investors sources said the presentations were light on financial detail, but management were bullish
on New Zealand's construction cycle and the wider economy.

Next Capital entered the business in 2006, before bolting on a number of other companies including
Hirequip.
Hirepool 's IPO is just the latest Kiwi company to pursue a dual-listing in Australia. Energy
companies Mighty River Power , Genesis Energy and Meridian Energy have taken a similar path in
the past two years, along with fuel retailer Z Energy. Investment bank UBS has been sounding
Australian fund managers about Gentrack , an Auckland-based software business, ahead of its
planned June 25 listing.

Elsewhere in listings, media monitoring business iSentia will hit the ASX  boards on Thursday after
raising $283.5 million for its IPO.

Page84of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The offer, priced at 15 times forecast 2015 financial year net profit after tax and amortisation, was
handled by Macquarie and UBS .

abncrg : Craigs Investment Partners Ltd. | caohi : Coates Hire Ltd | irpool : Hirepool Limited | nxcp :
Next Capital
i814 : Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | i83101 : Investment Banking | i84 : Rental/Leasing
Services | i842 : Construction Equipment Rental/Leasing | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ibnk :
Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
c1711 : Initial Public Offerings | c14 : Stock Listings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c02 :
Corporate Changes | c17 : Corporate Funding | c171 : Share Capital | cactio : Corporate Actions |
ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | nz : New Zealand | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140601ea620001z

CO

IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page85of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.