In brief

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY

LP

TD

In brief

860 words
25 August 2014
Oil and Gas News
OLNGAS
English
Copyright 2014 Al Hilal Publishing & Marketing Group. Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com
Company All Rights Reserved.

Bechtel, Union avert delays

MELBOURNE: Engineering giant Bechtel reached a new workplace agreement with construction
workers, averting strikes that could have delayed the start-up of three liquefied natural gas (LNG) plants it
is building on Australia’s east coast. Bechtel is building $62 billion worth of LNG plants on Curtis Island
off the state of Queensland, where the Construction, Forestry, Mining and Energy Union (CFMEU)
approved a new pay and work schedule deal after rejecting two earlier offers. Some workers had tried to
block others getting to and from Curtis Island ahead of the vote, disrupting activity.

Brightoil seeks China acquisition
HONG KONG: Brightoil Petroleum Holdings is seeking to make another major upstream acquisition over
the next 12 months and could issue new shares to finance the deal, chief executive Bruce Yung told
Reuters. He was speaking a week after Brightoil completed the $1.05 billion purchase of US producer
Anadarko Petroleum’s oilfield stakes in China. Brightoil, which is involved in oil trading and also owns
tankers and oil storage projects in mainland China, is already in talks with potential targets with oil and
gas producing assets in China, Yung said.

CESP’s Q2 net profit grows 85pc

SAO PAULO: Profit at Brazilian power generator and distributor Cia Energetica de Sao Paulo (CESP),
Brazil’s largest utility by market value, rose 85 per cent from a year earlier due to the high price of energy
on the spot market. Consolidated net profit at the utility, known as CESP, was 489.4 million reais ($215
million) in the three months ending June 30, up 85 per cent from 264.3 million reais a year ago, the
company said in a securities filing. The results came in below the average 518 million reais estimate of
four analysts surveyed by Thomson Reuters.

CVR buying crude for Kansas restart

NEW YORK: CVR Refining was buying crude for a near term restart of its 115,000-barrel-per-day (bpd)
Coffeyville, Kansas, refinery after a fire last month, trade sources said. The refinery had a fire on July 29
in its isomerisation unit that caused damage to distributed control and data systems and forced the entire
refinery to shut down. The original restart date was four weeks after the fire.

Enbridge Line 2a up

CALGARY: Enbridge’s 442,000 barrel-per-day Line 2a was back to normal capacity after going offline for
maintenance that took longer than originally planned, a company spokesman said. "During assessment
at the existing integrity work site on 2A it was determined additional maintenance was required delaying
the resumption of service to this line. The maintenance is now complete and service commenced,"
Enbridge spokesman Graham White said.
Irving Oil CEO departs
CALGARY: Irving Oil Ltd, the privately held firm that operates Canada’s largest refinery, said that Paul
Browning, the chief executive it appointed only last year, has left the company, though it offered no detail
on the reason for his departure. Samantha Robinson, a spokeswoman for the company, confirmed in an

Page130of416©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.email that Browning, a former General Electric Co executive, had departed the family-owned company
but did not say when he had left or when a successor would be named.

Mexico to announce new projects
MEXICO CITY: Mexico’s state-run electricity company will announce tenders for $4.9 billion in projects
in a first round of auctions under a sweeping opening of the government-run energy sector, daily El
Financiero reported. The Federal Electricity Commission will announce 16 projects, including four
pipelines and three electricity plants, worth $4.899 billion, according to a document obtained by El
Financiero. President Enrique Pena Nieto signed a package of laws needed to implement last year’s
energy reform that aims to lure billions of dollars in private investment to the country’s ailing oil, gas and
electricity sectors.

Costs weigh on profit at Nordex

FRANKFURT: Germany’s Nordex posted slightly lower than expected second-quarter earnings, burdened
by higher costs for staff and materials as the group expands production to cope with a rise in demand for
its wind turbines. Second-quarter earnings before interest and tax (EBIT) came in at 15.9 million ($21.3
million), up 1.8 per cent year on year but below the 17.4 million average forecast in a Reuters poll of
banks and brokerages.
Seven Energy commissions plant
LAGOS: Nigerian energy firm Seven Energy has commissioned a 90 billion naira ($600 million)
gas-processing and transport facility to supply gas to power plants in Africa’s biggest economy, the
company said. The infrastructure is key to ending decades of blackouts in Africa’s most populous nation
by supplying gas to power plants, bought during a government-led privatisation last year. Nigeria had not
invested in gas infrastructure in decades.
YPF strikes oil in Neuquen
BUENOS AIRES: Argentine state-controlled energy companyYPF said it had discovered an
unconventional oil field in the southern province of Neuquen. The find comes while YPF is struggling to
attract investment needed to develop vast shale oil and gas formations in the Vaca Muerta area, which is
also located in the southern Patagonia region.

CO

IN

NS
RE

anadp : Anadarko Petroleum Corp | frstsg : Brightoil Petroleum (Holdings) Limited | cufymu :
Construction, Forestry, Mining and Energy Union
i14001 : Petroleum Refining | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1 : Energy | i14 : Petroleum/Coal Products |
iindstrls : Industrial Goods
gjob : General Labor Issues | gcat : Political/General News | gcom : Society/Community/Work
china : China | braz : Brazil | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging
Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | lamz : Latin America | samz :
South America
Exploration & Production

IPD
PUB Al Hilal Publishing & Marketing Group
AN

Document OLNGAS0020140825ea8p0000f

Page131of416©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.