Chinese want bales with ‘back story’

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Agribusiness
Chinese want bales with ‘back story’

305 words
17 July 2014
Stock Journal
FSTOCJ
20
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

AUSTRALIA'S vast farming landscapes and fresh environmental credentials are key selling points
when it comes to winning buyer loyalty from cashed-up, educated Chinese consumers.

Even textile exports, such as wool, have an appealing 'back story' which shoppers want to know about
and relate to, Tianyu marketing manager Jane Guo said.

In heavily populated and industrialised China, where hundreds of millions of city consumers can
literally taste the smog and rarely see sun or blue sky for weeks on end, the farm image is big
business and features prominently in city marketing campaigns.
Luckily for Australia's meat, milk, horticulture, and grain crop producers, Chinese shoppers put a lot of
confidence in the clean, healthy, well-regulated origins of Australia's exports.

But they also increasingly expect farmers and marketers to produce evidence of good environmental
practices.
"Chinese consumers are showing much greater interest in environmental issues they want to know
products they buy have been well produced," Ms Guo said.

"I think there it is important to talk more about the back story behind Australian wool."

An underlying message to farmers visiting wool plants like Tianyu was that, just like high-end
consumers in Europe or the United States, the Chinese apparel shopper appreciated premium quality
and big name brands.

But while wool enjoyed a premium reputation, consumers also wanted evidence of good management
involved in producing woollen garments.
Tianyu, which imports 28,000 tonnes of greasy wool primarily from Australia, has one of China's most
modern scouring plants and is keen to promote its own environmental credentials. The company
recently spent about 8 million euros on new European technology upgrades and now boasts higher
effluent water-treatment standards than woollen processors in Italy.

ANDREW MARSHALL.

IN
RE

PUB
AN

i0 : Agriculture
china : China | austr : Australia | saustr : South Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FSTOCJ0020140716ea7h00016

Page184of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.