More for Moore as bank excels

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
More for Moore as bank excels

John Durie
1,081 words
3 May 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
23
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

When Nicholas Moore first started at Sydney's Riverview school nearly 40 years ago, Tony Abbott
was already a big wheel in the school and the paths of the two barely crossed.
Life is a bit different now. Moore has just received a 49 per cent hike in pay to $13.1 million and
another $3.8m in dividends, on top of the circa 1.5 million Sydney Airport shares he and other
shareholders picked up this year, after delivering a 49 per cent increase in profit at Macquarie Group
to $1.3 billion.

Sixty-eight per cent of revenue earnings comes from outside the country and the US investment
banking operations are now more profitable than the famed local franchise.
Moore has Macquarie running superbly, but it’s a business that really excels when the market is hot
and, frankly, right now it is a long way short of that, as is business confidence with consumers
cautious and business still unsure how to read the Abbott government.

Moore is quick to praise the work of the Reserve Bank, which he says is managing the economy in
transition better than most may have expected, but he won’t comment on the government’s
performance other than to say that business confidence is still well down.

ANZ’s Mike Smith is happy to damn the government’s proposed tax hike but Moore leaves political
commentary to others.

Back in 2007, his predecessor Alan Smith picked up a $33m pay cheque and the bank’s profit
peaked at $1.8bn, with return on Continued on Page 31 Continued from Page 23 equity regularly
topping 20 per cent, against the now still creditable 13.5 per cent.

FICC (fixed income, currencies and commodities) was the headline as the division came to life with a
$726 million profit on $1.7 billion in income, but while Macquarie Capital ($280m) and Macquarie
Securities ($107m) were also in positive territory, they are a fraction of the boomtime earnings.

Given the franchise is still strong in Australia — due to the quality of its people, Moore says — it can
expect some increase when deal flow starts to return to the better days.

Moore won’t directly attack the regulators and in fact goes out of his way to praise their good work.
As his commercial banking comrades let loose, the Macquarie boss simply noted in his presentation
that the $320m spent on compliance, to please the 190 different regulators it works with in 28
countries, was three time the level it was three years ago.

The strength in the franchise is its flexibility, with Greg Ward’s banking operations now claiming a
$17bn portfolio, 1 per cent of the Australian home loan market and total retail deposits of $33.3bn, up
7 per cent on year-ago returns.

Page106of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.That was a business shunned post-global financial crisis as being too capital heavy, but now
Macquarie is expanding its mainstream banking franchise.

Moore was typically cautious on his outlook and Credit Suisse’s James Ellis rightly noted market
disappointment that the 68 per cent dividend payout ratio didn’t account for the Sydney Airport shares
handed out mid-year.

In short, Moore has the machine well-oiled and poised for an upswing, and the question now is
whether his old schoolmate can engender some business confidence.
Philippines in favour THE Philippines continues to be the favourite base for Australian company call
centres, with M2’s Geoff Horth this week confirming his restructure would involve basing most staff in
the country.
The $11bn business process outsourcing market is big business in the country and increasingly is
being used by Australian financial services and telco companies.

M2 employs about 3000 people in total of whom 2000 are based in The Philippines. Toll is another to
tap the country’s expertise, in a market that highlights how centres of excellence attract a worldwide
audience.

Macquarie Bank has strong securities and banking franchise in the country. The Philippines is also a
key hub for information technology and other functions such as accounts payable.

Telstra has 7000 people in the country while Optus and TPG are other big clients.

ANZ has a big contingent and bases its credit card collection work (chasing up bad debts) in the
country, among other services.

The ability to expand and contract staff sizes as needed is seen as a big advantage.

In all, an estimated 45,000 Philippine locals are working for Australian companies.

The country’s advantages include a well-educated workforce in which working in back office jobs is
considered a good career opportunity, and worker pride compares favourably with counterparts in
Australia.

The US presence in the country means culturally they are a close fit.

Milking a good story NEVER let it be said that Murray Goulburn’s Gary Helou misses a chance to sell
a good story, and yesterday it was a plan to invest $127m in upgrading facilities — much needed
value-adding investment in Australian food manufacturing.

He is right and thankfully not the only one in the game, with Bega and Fonterra also investing to
boost value-add export opportunities.
MG will be investing $74m in cheese cut and wrap facilities, $38m on upgrading powder plants in
Koroit and Cobram, and another $14m on new milk packaging facilities in Edith Park in northwest
Tasmania.
The battle locally is to first source supply, hopefully expand the local herd by making Australian dairy
farms sustainably profitable, and have the offshore base.

That is the selling point stressed by Wilmar and First Pacific in their $1.8bn bid for Goodman Fielder
which, after five days trading, has left local punters not expecting much in the way of an increased
bid, given the stock closed at 67c on Friday against a 65c a share offer.

The Bank of Norway has exited the Goodman share register.

Helou will hit the road in a couple of weeks to sell his proposed $450m capital raising.
The latest investment was financed in part on the back of the sale and lease-back of the co-op’s
logistics centre and the $50m profit on the sale of the its stake in Warrnambool Cheese and
Butter.Helou looks at Australian long-life milk on the shelf in China at $3.50 a litre against $1 a litre
for pasteurised fresh milk in Australia, and he says that is where the market is.

CO
IN

mcqbnk : Macquarie Group Limited
i814 : Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | i83101 : Investment Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit |
ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities

Page107of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

RE

PUB
AN

c151 : Earnings | c1512 : Dividends | c15 : Performance | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter
| nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | phlns : Philippines | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | nswals :
New South Wales | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140502ea53000be

Page108of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.