PEP readies numbers for Hoyts dual-track process

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Market Wrap - Street Talk
PEP readies numbers for Hoyts dual-track process

296 words
24 June 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
16
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

The accountants are crawling over Pacific Equity Partners' Hoyts Group, laying the foundations for
the private equity firm's pending dual-track sale.
It is understood PEP has hired a big four accounting firm to conduct vendor due diligence on the
cinema business, coinciding with its year-end accounts and audit procedures.

Diligence is expected to firm up numbers ahead of the dual-track sale, and sources said it was
prompted by inbound interest from global trade buyers and rival private equity firms.
Meetings have been held in recent months between PEP and a number of Chinese buyers. One of
the interested parties is believed to be Dalian Wanda, China's biggest commercial property
company and the world's largest cinema chain operator.

Hoyts, which operates 43 cinemas across Australia and New Zealand as well as the Hoyts Kiosk
DVD distribution chain and cinema advertising business Val Morgan, is likely to fetch a sale
multiple of about 8 times earnings, the sources added.
Bankers have been pitching for the advisory roles on a mooted $700 million initial public offer over
the past month. UBS and Macquarie Group are favoured to be appointed to handle the float, with
Citigroup and CBA Equities also strongly in the running.

As revealed by The Australian Financial Review on Monday, Hoyts has shelved its stand-alone
video-on-demand service and is now due to hold talks with other media groups about collaborating
on a streaming product ahead of the sale.

Damian Keogh was promoted to chief executive of Hoyts in February after a successful tenure at
the helm of Val Morgan and will the lead the company into the IPO, which is likely to take place
around November.

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

peprt : Pacific Equity Partners
i8150203 : Private Equity | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | ialtinv : Alternative
Investments | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140623ea6o00025

Page20of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.