Aussie wine is a hard sell in China

Aussie wine is a hard sell in China

The Australian

HD
CR
WC 614 words
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

12 August 2014
00:00
theAustralian.com.au
NLAUSW
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

TD

DARREN Rathbone runs three successful wine brands but has been taken aback at the challenge of
cracking the Chinese export market.
Mr Rathbone, the managing director of Rathbone Wine Group, has a message for mining magnate
Andrew Forrest and others seeking to massively boost Australian agricultural exports: it takes years of
on-the-ground effort even to begin to understand the whims of China’s consumers.

The wine boss’s bid to engage with Chinese consumers extends to establishing his own distribution
company in China several years ago, employing a Mandarin speaker at the cellar door at Yering Station
in the Yarra Valley and hosting dinners in Beijing and Shanghai.

Mr Rathbone welcomed Mr Forrest’s initiative to establish a partnership to market Australian agricultural
produce to China under a single brand, with the aim of establishing Australia as China’s preferred
long-term supplier. “If we can focus on quality production and supply to the top end of Chinese demand,
we can do that really well,” he said.

“But the idea that we are the food bowl of Asia and we’re going to be able to produce enough food to feed
2 or 3 billion people, that’s not the direction we should take.”
Mr Rathbone cautioned against predictions that China would prove a saviour for Australia’s wine industry,
which is still suffering from depressed prices caused by an unprecedented grape glut and a high
exchange rate.
The downturn has hit the Rathbone Wine Group particularly hard, causing Mr Rathbone’s father Doug to
sell almost his entire stake in crop protection group Nufarm earlier this year to slash the debt load of the
family company. The dramatic share sale signalled that the family’s future is focused for now on
stabilising its wine businesses.
The most recent data on Australia’s wine exports to China showed a steep 12 per cent decline in annual
sales, which industry observers attributed to locals staying away from up-market hotels and restaurants
amid a government-led austerity drive.
Despite this, China remains Australia’s fastest-growing export market and is viewed by many as the holy
grail for local wine producers.
“There’s been a lot of talk across the industry that China is going to be the magic bullet for Australian
wine — I think that’s a bit naive,” Mr Rathbone said.
“There isn’t a fast track. People say ‘if we can only get 1 per cent of China drinking wine every day it will
solve the world’s wine glut’.
“That is not understanding the Chinese culture and it’s not understanding what they are likely to do.”
He said Rathbone Wine Group was the first Australian company to establish its own distribution network
in China but its brands remained little-known outside Beijing and Shanghai and French wines remained
far more popular among well-heeled consumers.

“It’s the big Bordeaux houses that have done well in getting their brands out there,” he said.

Page18of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“Part of it is that a lot of Chinese have come into wealth and the French brands were the most expensive
and they’ve equated price with quality in the same way they’ve gone for Louis Vuitton or Gucci.”
He said his company was now focused on examining consumer behaviour and educating Chinese
drinkers about wine.

Mr Rathbone was speaking after Xanadu’s 2011 Stevens Road cabernet sauvignon was named
Australia’s wine of the year — beating 9000 others — at the James Halliday Wine Companion Awards
last week.
The respected wine critic gave the Margaret River wine a rating of 99 out of 100.

NS

RE

c312 : External Markets | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC
Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

PUB News Ltd.
AN

Document NLAUSW0020140811ea8b000m9

Page19of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.