ÔSydney' may not stay dark; Cheaza to rock China ; fetching notes at NSPCA charity event

John Katsilometes

12 August 2014
Las Vegas Sun
LVSN

Sun

SE
HD ÔSydney' may not stay dark; Cheaza to rock China; fetching notes at NSPCA charity event
BY
WC 1,134 words
PD
SN
SC
PG A6
LA
CY
LP

English
Copyright 2014 Las Vegas Sun. All Rights Reserved.

TD

A version of this column was posted on lasvegassun.com today.

The Kats Report Bureau at this writing is Starbucks at Planet Hollywood, where upstairs the adult revue
"Sydney After Dark" is performing its final show later at the old "Peepshow" showroom.But this is not to be
the final show in Las Vegas for this troupe from Australia, produced by Adam Steck's SPI Entertainment
and directed by onetime Aussie pop star Belinda Chapple. Word is out, courtesy of my colleague
Ubiquitous Robin Leach, that the show is hopefully headed a kangaroo hop across the hotel's mezzanine
to Sin City Theater. That move poses a list of questions and concerns as tall as the show's 6-foot cast
members.

Chiefly, how is a larger-than-expected production conceived Down Under for a 1,500-seat showroom
going to play in a room that seats 300 and was built primarily for stand-up comics? This won't be boring,
watching the show shrink to fit that cozy venue, and a tip of the Akubra to Steck for keeping production
onstage.

¥ On the topic of "Peepshow" and those it has touched, one of that show's former stars is headed to
China. We speak of onetime Peep Diva Cheaza, who has been a singer in "Jubilee" of late but is headed
for Shenzhen, just north of Hong Kong, to perform a nightclub gig at one of the region's chic restaurants
and lounges. Cheaza's band is named for her and is to play a mix of covers and her originals.

Cheaza has spent a dozen years in Las Vegas, performing in a wide range of shows, including Wayne
Brady's headlining production at the Venetian and her run in "Jubilee." She caught the latter show during
its ongoing overhaul, performing select numbers for a little less than six months. Of that she says, "It was
a challenging experience in a lot of ways, but every person in that cast is awesome." And of her upcoming
experience, I say, inside of a month Cheaza will be the most famous entertainer in all of Shenzhen.

¥ On the topic, still, of those who have "Peepshow" ties, our friend Tara Palsha (that show's Little Red
Riding Hood before she moved on to "Vegas! The Show") is auditioning for roles in New York. One of her
first calls was for the upcoming production "Honeymoon In Vegas." Indeed, the former showgirl — Palsha
was also in "Jubilee" — took a look at that show, which had already filled its lead roles and was looking
only for "swings." False alarm. Just as well.

Otherwise, Palsha and her fianc≈ Scott Moats are digging it pretty well back in Manhattan. We'll keep tabs
on these kids, promise.

¥ Following up on my column from The Sunday, where I had noted Steve Wynn's comments about the
2007 sale of the New Frontier parcel to El-Ad Group: The purchase price at the time was $1.3 billion,
and Wynn has said the group far overpaid for the parcel, which last week was bought by Crown Resorts
head James Packer in a partnership with former Wynn exec Andrew Pascal and the Oaktree Capital
Management investment firm. Though Wynn criticized El-Ad's lavish expenditure, talking of the group
spending as if it were on a "drunken spree," his comments were not directed at the man who helped make
that deal happen, the late-great David Atwell. That deal was among many high-end commercial real
estate sales in Atwell's career, which included the sale of the land that became home to the Forum Shops
at Caesars.

Page102of239©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.¥ Sunday afternoon I hit the Nevada Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals' "Out of the Gutters"
adoption event at Sam's Town bowling lanes. This was the second event for the no-kill canine sanctuary.
Here is what we plucked from the gutters:
Mo5aic has left Shimmer Cabaret at Westgate Resorts. Final night was July 26; the vocal group
reasoned, logically, that the planned deconstruction of that room to create a lobby bar and lounge meant
they had no home under the new ownership ... Fright Dome founder Jason Egan has a big announcement
coming soon about themes and development for his new Hong Kong and Chicago attractions. Fright
Dome in Las Vegas has announced it is filling 400 positions in Las Vegas beginning Saturday at 3 p.m. at
Circus Circus ... Las Vegas tattoo artist and musician Dirk Vermin's "Bad Ink" show on A&E has been
canceled after two seasons. Up next for D.V. is his autobiography, titled "The Devil and Dirk Vermin," due
by spring ... The daughter of "Raiding the Rock Vault" bassist Hugh McDonald, Morgan Blackhurst, is Miss
Rodeo Tennessee and is competing in Miss Rodeo America at the next Wrangler National Finals Rodeo
event in December ... More "Rock Vault": Gina McAuley, the wife of singer Robin McAuley, makes
sequined T-shirts of pets, working from photos and taking up to five hours to finish just one shirt. Sporting
one of those shirts was Carmen Shortino, wife of "Vaulter" Paul Shortino, with the couple's Podenco
Canario named Dio depicted ... Terry Fator bowled a 112 and beat his wife, Taylor, by "a few pins,"
according to reports. Oddly, Winston the Impersonating Turtle bowled a 221

¥ BBR is back, at Sunset Station's Club Madrid. The oft-noted (at least in this column) steam-punk
adaptation of "Alice in Wonderland" is being showcased for one night at that venue Aug. 26. Show is at 11
p.m.; cover is $5. Also that night, in an unfortunate and unplanned coincidence, is the debut of Lon
Bronson's All-Star Band at Mizuya Lounge at Mandalay Bay. It also abuts Kenny Davidsen's open-mic
cabaret at Tuscany's T-Spot Lounge. VegasVille scenesters have real conundrum that night.

¥ The bubble act has returned! We are speaking of the inflatable piece of performance art in "Absinthe,"
which left the show when former bubble inhabitant Angel Porrino was let go back in 2004 or whenever it
was. The new cast member performing the routine is Charlie Starling of Newcastle, England. Her
performance reflects the original bubble routine, which was a stylish and refined act before it shifted to a
comedic tap-dance number later in the show's run.john.kats@lasvegassun.com / 702-990-7720

ART John KatsilometesCarmen Shortino wears a T-shirt designed by Gina McAuley depicting Shortino’s

Podenco Canario dog named Dio at the Nevada SPCA’s “Out of the Gutters” charity event on Sunday at
Sam’s Town. The women’s spouses sing together in “Raiding the Rock Vault.”

CO planhy : Planet Hollywood International Inc
IN

NS

RE

i66 : Hotels/Restaurants | i661 : Restaurants/Cafes/Fast Food Places | i6611 : Full-service Restaurants |
ilea : Leisure/Arts/Hospitality
gtenp : Tenpin Bowling | gmusic : Music | gcat : Political/General News | gent : Arts/Entertainment | gspo :
Sports/Recreation | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nrgn :
Routine General News | gcha : Charities | gcom : Society/Community/Work
china : China | usa : United States | lvegas : Las Vegas | sydney : Sydney | usnv : Nevada | apacz : Asia
Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz :
Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern
Asia | namz : North America | nswals : New South Wales | usw : Western U.S.

PUB Las Vegas Sun
AN Document LVSN000020140814ea8c0000m

Page103of239©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.