Dip in QBE Shares Offers a Buying Opportunity, Says UBS -- Market Talk

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Dip in QBE Shares Offers a Buying Opportunity, Says UBS -- Market Talk

1,345 words
22 May 2014
09:27
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

2327 GMT [Dow Jones] With QBE Insurance (QBE.AU) shares dipping below A$11 this week, UBS
suggests another buying opportunity has emerged. It leaves its price target at A$13.50/share, although it
has trimmed its earnings-per-share forecasts for FY14 by 1.7% to US$0.93 and FY15 by 2.9% to
US$1.07. "QBE still has many bumps to navigate around in 2014, but we feel a sufficient valuation and
expectations buffer is now factored in to absorb possible further disappointments," says UBS, which has
a buy call on the stock. QBE shares ended Wednesday at A$11.37. (robb.stewart@wsj.com; Twitter:
@RobbMStewart)

2306 [Dow Jones] J.P. Morgan upgrades Qantas (QAN.AU) to Overweight from Underweight, and lifts its
target price 20% to A$1.47 after reviewing earnings forecasts following the airline's recent update on cost
savings and fleet simplification. "In addition, we think the announcement that QAN will not add new seat
capacity into the domestic market in 1Q15 is encouraging and hopefully will lead to a more rational
duopoly and yield and load improvement," the broker says. QAN last A$1.22. (david.rogers@wsj.com;
Twitter: @DRWSJ)

2302 GMT [Dow Jones] Credit Suisse lowers its FY14, FY15 and FY16 earnings forecasts for Pumpkin
Patch (PPL.NZ) due to "what we see as deteriorating conditions in PPL's key Australian market." While it
is "wary of knee-jerk reactions to 'events' such as the Federal Budget" it notes that retail conditions were
already "reasonably fragile" leading into the budget. Moreover, PPL is "directly exposed to that (family)
demographic which will be impacted directly by the budget, whether it be via fuel excises, doctors' levies,
or increased co-payments for pharmacy medicines." As a result, consumer confidence is likely to be
"impacted more adversely than we had originally anticipated," it says. It lowers its 12-month target to
NZ$0.42 from NZ$0.46 and retains its underperform rating. Pumpkin Patch is currently unchanged at
NZ$0.51.(rebecca.howard@wsj.com; Twitter: @FarroHoward)

2259 [Dow Jones] Bell Potter trims its Adelaide Brighton (ABC.AU) target price 9% to A$4.05, but keeps
its Buy rating after the company forecast FY14 net profit versus a 9% rise expected by the broker.
"Since unveiling its FY13 result ABC has unveiled the loss of a material cement supply contract in South
Australia and unveiled what appears a 6% downgrade to consensus FY15 earnings forecasts," Bell
Potter analyst Jonathan Snape says. "Despite this ABC provides reasonable leverage to both a recovery
in residential spending as well as a recovery in infrastructure investment." ABC last A$3.53.
(david.rogers@wsj.com; Twitter: @DRWSJ)
17:30 EDT - Global manufacturing activity updates from China, Europe and the US will be the main
catalysts for direction for NZD/USD, says ANZ Bank. "Signs of improvement in the China PMI is required
for NZD to sustain strength," it says. Domestically New Zealand jobs and consumer confidence data and
2-year inflation expectations are likely to be supportive. NZD/USD is at 0.8576. ANZ Bank tips support at
0.8530 and resistance at 0.8590. (rebecca.howard@wsj.com; @FarroHoward)

17:26 EDT - Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) names Mohammad Ali head of European FX Spot Trading for
TD Securities. Prior to this role, Ali worked as TD's director of short-term interest rates trading in London.
He will continue to be based there. Ali's promotion comes as TD aims to streamline its FX business,
eliminating three other positions in New York and London as part of the effort. FX desks haven't been the
happiest of places at big banks across Europe this year, with the industry facing thinning trading activity
and a wave of senior executives leaving amid regulatory probes. (rita.trichur@wsj.com, @RitaTrichur)

Page55of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.16:47 EDT - BMO Capital Markets says that after a spirited run since late last year, the Australian dollar
has taken a step back. "At the same time, the Canadian dollar, while a tad softer this week, has
managed to pull it together in the past month," BMO says. The AUD/CAD cross has therefore shifted
back in Canada's favor in the past few weeks, with parity in sight. AUD/CAD trades at 1.0097, from
1.0162 when May began. "The loonie has found some support in still-strong oil prices--WTI is now close
to $104-- and firmer domestic inflation...while the Aussie has been clipped by the RBA's more dovish
tone," BMO says. (don.curren@wsj.com; @dbcurren)

16:25 EDT - The FOMC's discussions on unresolved issues pertaining to the normalization of monetary
policy suggest "the Fed remains in the planning stages and should not be viewed as signaling the onset
of a rate tightening cycle," says Barclays Research following the release of the minutes from the FOMC's
April meeting. Barclays, which saw little new information in the minutes, still expects the FOMC to finish
tapering in October and to start raising the fed funds rate in June 2015. (stephen.wisnefski@wsj.com,
@wisnefski)

16:14 EDT - Samson Capital CIO Jonathan Lewis walks away from the Fed minutes convinced that the
first rate hike is still a ways off. Not only is economic growth, particularly housing, still uncertain, he says,
but logistics behind tightening are still very much a work in progress. "Considering that figuring out the
right tools to reverse QE...is probably a pretty important question to answer correctly, staff will likely be
careful with their research," he says. So them saying the Fed will continue reviewing the topic in
"upcoming meetings" could easily take up the remaining five meetings in 2014, he says. Which means
more struggles for the dollar. (cynthia.lin@wsj.com; @cynthialin_dj)

2012 GMT [Dow Jones] The NZD/GBP is at 0.5069 early in New Zealand after taking a tumble when the
Bank of England's minutes overnight showed rate hikes are very gradually coming onto the horizon, says
BNZ FX Strategist Kymberly Martin. The pair was at 0.5130 prior to the minutes. Martin says the pair is
currently hovering around crucial support levels and a break below would open up the way for a return to
the 0.5000 level. (rebecca.howard@wsj.com; Twitter: @FarroHoward)

15:39 EDT - Three weeks after downgrading New Jersey, Fitch blasts Christie's proposal to slash the
proposed coming-year payment to the state's public-employee pension system, potentially setting up the
state for another ratings cut. "This reversion to prior practices--cutting pension contributions as a way to
balance the state's budget--as a form of deficit financing...is of particular credit concern at a time of
economic recovery." Fitch says proposing to slash the planned pension payment "again displays an
inability to deliver a recurring solution to the state's budgetary imbalance and further delays action to
align the state's revenues and expenditures." New Jersey is already one of the country's lowest-rated
states, and Fitch's comments sound like the ratings firm could be preparing for another one.
(kevin.kingsbury@wsj.com; @kevinkingsbury)

15:10 EDT - Federal Reserve Chairwoman Janet Yellen recently expressed worry about a "flattening out"
of U.S. housing activity. Minutes to the Fed's April meeting expand further on those concerns. "Most
participants commented on the continuing weakness in housing activity," the minutes said, prompting Ian
Shepherdson, chief economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics, to write that "housing is clearly on the
Fed's watch-list." Still, the softness in real estate has not yet reached the point of affecting the Fed's
economic outlook -- and therefore is unlikely to shift investors' interest rate expectations.
(pedro.dacosta@wsj.com)

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

May 21, 2014 19:27 ET (23:27 GMT)

CO
IN

NS

qbeibp : QBE Insurance Group Ltd | ubs : UBS AG
i82 : Insurance | ifinal : Financial Services | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | i82001 :
Full-line Insurance | ibnk : Banking/Credit
c152 : Earnings Projections | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | namt : All Market Talk | ndjmt : Dow
Jones Market Talk | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | nfxacb
: Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class Premium News | nsmcm : Stock Market
Commentary | c15 : Performance | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry
News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
AN

Document DJDN000020140521ea5l005al

Page56of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.