Mid-market companies on growth path after slow 2013

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Mid-market companies on growth path after slow 2013

Leon Gettler
922 words
2 May 2014
BRW
BRW
First
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Most mid-market companies wrote off 2013 as a horror show year. With political uncertainty, focus on the
election and patchy economic figures, no one was hiring or expanding. For the mid-market sector, 2014
is the year of the bounce-back.

According to GE Capital's Mid-Market Report for 2014, there has been a marked pick up in sentiment
since the Federal election in September. Since September 2013, there has been a clear increase in the
business growth outlook index, lifting all sectors of the economy. A big driver of the change was the
solid performance of retail in late 2013 compared to 2012 which created a halo effect across all sectors.

That in itself suggests a certain agility in the sector to respond to tough conditions. And that's important
because the mid-market sector is very much Australia's engine room. Although it represents only 1.4 per
cent of all businesses in Australia, it generates $425 billion or a third of all business revenues and
employs one in four working Australians.

And while market and customer fragmentation continues, new niche opportunities are appearing as the
mid-market zeroes in and adapts quickly to change. Many are specialising . As Aaron Baxter, managing
director of commercial finance at GE Capital told the BR-GE Capital momentum forum last night, they
are becoming thought leaders, or trend setters, in their sector. The best mid-market companies are
specialists, putting them way ahead of the corporates.

"It's very resilient, very optimistic and the outlook in terms of growth is positive,'' Baxter says. "The
second half of 2014 is shaping up well."Growth is key focus for 2014
The session was buzzing as mid-market company representatives attended panel discussions in the
food and beverage, transport and technology sectors.

Baxter said that mid-market CEOs and CFOs were focused on costs and government regulation in 2013
but that's changed. "Now with the election out of the way, they are very much in growth mode, focusing
on growing the revenue in the top line,'' he says.

Baxter cited ASX listed Beacon Hire as an example. For the last seven to eight years, it's enjoyed 15 to
25 per cent profit growth, driven largely by its innovation with its omni-channel strategy and being the first
to market with LED lights.
Another example is milk products businessLongwarry Food Park based in the town of Longwarry in the
lush dairy region of Gippsland in south-east Victoria.
Longwarry is cleaning up in Asia and the Middle East. Engineer turned dairy entrepreneur Rakesh
Aggarwal, who purchased the abandoned milk powder plant from Bonlac in 2001, says the company
just can't keep up with the demand from Asia.
"We have sold out to August,'' Aggarwal says. "If they want three, we have to give them one."

Page150of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.As Aggarwal says, it was a strategy of adapting to tough market conditions here. Very much a
mid-market thing. "The margin just isn't here,'' he says. "The supermarkets have done the margin
transfer."
Asia and the Middle East generate about 80 per cent of the group's turnover. China has been its biggest
export market for the past two years.

Similarly, Tim Nuttall from Access Hire, which specialises in short, mid or long-term rentals of aerial work
platforms, materials handling and associated equipment, says the construction sector has gone quiet. Up
until last year, it was being driven by the money the then government was spending on infrastructure.
That's dried up since the election. "The capital equipment support area is feeling the pain,'' he says.

But he says the mid-market is seeing private investors coming back into the sector and the shopping
centres are expanding. Good news for construction and mid-market suppliers as the mid-market zeroes
in on the new niche opportunity.Eye on cost

One of the distinctive trends in the report is that the mid-market companies are embracing jobless
growth. While 61 per cent of mid-market businesses are expecting to grow revenue in the next year,
most of them (55 per cent) are planning to employ the same number of staff. Similarly, 31 per cent of
mid-market companies – almost on-third – plan to increase revenue but keep the employees numbers the
same.

So while they are embracing growth, they're focused on efficiency and keeping an eye on cost, a legacy
of the last five years.

As the GE Capital report says, the strength of the upward trend is uncertain with the ongoing
restructuring of manufacturing, a trenchantly high Australian dollar poor weather for rural industries.

"Things are tough, a lot of people aren't getting the growth they want,'' says Bea McDonald, GE Capital
Product Director. "We're optimistic but as the year goes on, it gets harder."

Or as Tracie Dickenson from Queensland-based Daryl Dickenson Transport puts it, 2014 has been a
massive improvement on 2013 and confidence is coming back into the transport sector. The problem,
she says, is that at this stage, it's difficult for businesses to make long-term forecasts. "There is still no
consistency,'' she says.

"One week is as good as and the other week, you're wondering what's going to happen."

The latest GE Capital report puts it bluntly: the upward trend is there and the signs are good. But it's
being tested. The next instalment is yet to come.

CO
IN

NS

gecapt : General Electric Capital Corporation | gnelc : General Electric Company
i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i0 : Agriculture | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i413 : Dairy
Products | icnp : Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products | i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150104 :
Sales Financing | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
reqraf : Suggested Reading Agriculture/Forestry | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr :
Suggested Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
AN

Document BRW0000020140502ea520000b

Page151of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.