Digest

HD Digest
WC 2,051 words
PD 20 March 2014
SN New Zealand Transport Intelligence Business Alert
SC TMRTNL
LA English
CY
LP

(c) 2014 The Main Report Publications Ltd

Aviation

Flight cancellations ahead of French strike

TD

Cargo News Asia 18/03/2014. European airlines warned passengers of coming cancellations and
disruption, ahead of a strike by French air-traffic controllers over terms and conditions of employment. The
French Civil Aviation Authority said it has asked airlines to reduce their flight schedules to and from
airports in the Paris region by 30%, and by 20% for the airports serving Lyon, Marseille, Nice and
Toulouse. Unions are demanding better salaries, improved employment security and the maintenance of
public services, says Eric Héraud, spokesman for France’s General Direction of Civil Aviation. British lower
cost airline easyJet says it is cancelling 78 flights into Paris and across France, and Ireland-based rival
carrier Ryanair said it would cancel 26 flights to or from France. British Airways, a unit of International
Consolidated Airlines Group has cancelled a handful of flights on routes to Paris and Nice. Air France-KLM
said it expects to be able to transport all its customers on long-haul flights. “However, some delays are to
be expected, especially on our short and medium-haul network. There may be some last-minute
cancellations,” said a spokesman. Airlines also expect the strike to affect flights overflying France. More ...
http://www.cargonewsasia.com/secured/article.aspx?id=15&article=33056

10,000 Qantas jobs could go offshore

Cargo News Asia 17/03/2014. As many as 10,000 Qantas jobs, including maintenance work, could be sent
offshore despite fresh safety concerns. Embattled Qantas boss Alan Joyce, refused to rule out additional
job losses to the 5,000 recently announced if proposed changes to the Qantas Sale Act allowed the iconic
airline to locate more of its business offshore, reported the Advertiser. “I can’t rule anything in or out,” he
told a parliamentary committee in Sydney, arguing Qantas, like its rival Virgin, should have no limit on how
many jobs it can offshore. “We need for the future the same flexibility our competitor has. So if our
competitor has the ability, which it does, to do all of its heavy maintenance, its call centres, everything,
offshore then for Qantas to compete on a level playing field, to have the same options as that competition,
it needs the same freedom,” Joyce says. The assistant national secretary of the Australian Services Union,
Linda White, warned that 10,000 jobs – one in three – could potentially be based offshore. While staff at
check-in desks would likely remain Australian, call centre and freight staff would probably be moved. More
... http://www.cargonewsasia.com/secured/article.aspx?id=15&article=33046&register=yes

Call for cut in air cargo transit times

Cargo News Asia 13/03/2014. The International Air Transport Association (IATA) commenced its 8th
World Cargo Symposium in Los Angeles with a call for the average end-to-end air cargo transit time to be
cut by up to 48 hours by the end of the decade. “In this FIFA World Cup year, we need to move the
goal-posts for customer expectations. Cutting average transit times by up to 48 hours by 2020 would make
a huge difference to our value proposition, and enable the industry to arrest modal shift, and drive new
efficiencies for the business,” says Des Vertannes, IATA’s global head of cargo in his opening keynote
address. Currently, the average end-to-end time for consignments is around six to seven days - a
schedule that has not improved since the 1960s. More ...
http://www.cargonewsasia.com/secured/article.aspx?id=15&article=33033

Rail

Transnet South Africa orders 1064 locomotives

Page29of315©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IRJ 17/03/2014. Transnet celebrated its biggest-ever locomotive order on March 17, when it signed
contracts worth Rand 50bn with four international suppliers for a total of 1064 locomotives for its Transnet
Freight Rail (TFR) subsidiary. CSR Zhuzhou Electric Locomotive, China, and Bombardier will supply a
total of 599 electric locomotives, while GE and CNR will deliver 465 diesel locomotives. Bombardier’s
share of the deal comprises 240 Traxx Africa 100km/h dual-voltage (3kV dc and 25kV ac) electric
locomotives. Bombardier says that more than 60% of the contract value will be localised. CSR will supply
359 dual-voltage six-axle electric locomotives, which will have a continous output of 4.6MW and a
maximum speed of 100km/h. GE will supply 233 ES40Aci Evolution Series diesel locomotives with 55%
local content, while CNR will deliver 232 3.3MW six-axle diesels with ac traction (pictured below). CNR
says the contract is its largest-ever export order. More ...
http://www.railjournal.com/index.php/locomotives/transnet-south-africa-orders-1064-
locomotives.html?channel=528

Egypt revives high-speed rail plans

IRJ 18/03/2014. Egypt is to revive plans for a high-speed line linking the Mediterranean coast with the
country’s far south, according to transport minister Ibrahim El-Demeiry, who has described the project as
“a top priority” for the interim Govt. El-Demeiry says bids will be invited soon for the construction of the
line, which would run for 1200km from Alexandria via Giza, Asyut and Luxor to Aswan when all phases are
completed. The project had been shelved since the Egyptian government commissioned a technical study
in 2009 from Italferr, the international engineering consultancy arm of Italian State Railways (FS). The
government says the first 200km phase from Alexandria to Giza could be completed in three years. The
second and third stages, from Giza to Asyut and Luxor, are around 400km each. The main aims of the
proposed network, which would have a commercial speed of up to 350 km/h, are to attract investment and
boost tourism. More ...
http://www.railjournal.com/index.php/africa/egypt-revives-high-speed-rail-plans.html?channel=542

Russia to allow private investment in metros

IRJ 17/03/2014. The Russian Govt says it expects to approve legislation in the middle of this year which
would allow the private sector to invest in metro projects, including the construction of new lines and the
acquisition of new rolling stock. The Ministry of Transport has prepared and issued for public consultation
a draft law that would allow non-budget funds to be invested in the construction of metro lines through
concessions. The bill will regulate private sector investment in all aspects of light rail and metro projects.
“The basis for the construction of the first private metros lines in Russia has been already created through
the law on concessioning,” says a representative of the ministry. “Therefore, it is clear that the government
will not turn back and private money will soon be available for metros. Some regional governments have
already initiated negotiations with private investors and after the bill is adopted construction could start
within a couple of years.” More ...
http://www.railjournal.com/index.php/metros/russia-to-allow-private-investment-in-metro-
projects.html?channel=542

Ports

Vancouver port fails to get truckers to return to work

Cargo News Asia 17/03/2014. A two-and-a-half week container truck driver strike at Port Metro Vancouver
was set to continue after a Govt and port authority plan to end the job action at Canada’s largest port failed
to make headway on the weekend. The 14-point plan, revealed by the Canadian and British Columbia
governments and the port authority, sets out to address the concerns of the striking drivers on fair pay,
reduced wait times at container facilities and the creation of an industry oversight committee. It also called
for the striking drivers, who include unionised and independent truckers, to return to work immediately,
ending a strike that has crippled operations and delayed the transport of hundreds of millions of dollars
worth of goods. Gavin McGarrigle, British Columbia area director for Unifor, the union which represents
about 400 container truck drivers, says it had responded to the 14-point plan with some questions but that
it had been told it would get no answers until truckers returned to work. More ...
http://www.cargonewsasia.com/secured/article.aspx?id=3&article=33049

Port strike hurting Canadian economy

Cargo News Asia 18/03/2014. The government of the Canadian province of British Columbia won’t rule out
asking the federal government for back-to-work legislation to end a port strike crippling the country’s
largest port. Hundreds of members of Unifor-Vancouver Container Truckers’ Association parked their
trucks on March 10, joining the more than 1,000 members of the non-union United Truckers Association
on strike at Port Metro Vancouver since last month. Better pay and standardised rates that would prevent
drivers from undercutting each other are among the issues. A tentative deal was reached two weeks ago
but members voted against the agreement last weekend. BC Minister of Transportation Stone said the

Page30of315©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.dispute was halting the movement of US$126m in cargo per day. Prime Minister Stephen Harper has
called it a threat to the economy.

Shipping

Global shippers must tighten belts – Cosco boss

Cargo News Asia 14/03/2014. Global shipping firms must prepare for another tough year as a glut in
global capacity will continue to weigh on profits and margins, the chairman of China’s biggest shipping
group, China Ocean Shipping Group Co (Cosco) says. “The industry turnaround will still take a long time,”
Ma Zehua says. “There are a lot of challenges ahead.” Cosco Group is one of China’s top 100 central
Govt-controlled conglomerates. The firm operates more than 700 merchant vessels with shipping lines
covering 1,600 ports. The group controls five listed companies, including China Cosco Holdings and
Cosco Corp (Singapore). Cosco Corp (Singapore) reported a 71% decline in net profit last year, while
China Cosco Holdings, the group’s flagship, says it should return to profitability after posting losses in
2011 and 2012 following the sale of its logistics business, stakes in a container manufacturer and office
properties. More ... http://www.cargonewsasia.com/secured/article.aspx?id=3&article=33038

Pollution

Smoggy Paris tries odd-even license plate strategy

ENS Newswire 17/03/2014. In response to the thick blanket of smog which settled over Paris last week,
Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault limited city traffic on Monday to drivers with odd numbered license
plates. On Tuesday, only drivers with even numbered plates can use their vehicles. Prime Minister Ayrault
says he is aware of the difficulties which this may cause in the daily life of Parisians, but this extra step is
necessary. The Prime Minister said he “trusts the spirit of responsibility and citizenship of each and
everyone.” The restriction affects trucks over 3.5 tonnes, and all light vehicles, such as cars, scooters and
motorcycles. Electric and hybrid cars are not affected, nor are vehicles powered by natural gas or liquefied
petroleum gas. Also exempted are cars carrying three or more people, police, fire, and emergency
vehicles, as well as postal, money transport and garbage collection vehicles and those transporting
perishable foods to markets, grocery stores, cafes and restaurants. More ...
http://ens-newswire.com/2014/03/17/smoggy-paris-tries-odd-even-license-plate-strategy/

Trucking

Obama orders higher fuel efficiency standards for big trucks

ENS Newswire 18/03/2014. President Barack Obama set the wheels in motion for the next phase of
vehicle fuel efficiency and greenhouse gas standards for medium-duty and heavy-duty trucks as he
pledged to do in his State of the Union address in January. Speaking at a Safeway distribution center in
Upper Marlboro, the President directed the US Environmental Protection Agency and the National
Highway Traffic Safety Administration to develop and issue the next phase of standards by March 2016.
The agencies are expected to issue a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking by March 2015. This second round
of fuel efficiency standards will build on the first-ever standards for medium-duty and heavy-duty vehicles,
covering model years 2014 through 2018. Proposed by the Obama Administration and finalized in
September 2011, these standards took effect on January 1. They are estimated to save vehicle owners
and operators a total of $50bn in fuel costs and save a projected 530m barrels of oil. More ...
http://ens-newswire.com/2014/02/18/obama-orders-higher-fuel-efficiency-standards-for-big-trucks/

CO afran : Air France-KLM | bairw : International Consolidated Airlines Group S.A.
IN
NS

i75 : Airlines | i7501 : Scheduled Passenger Airlines | iairtr : Air Transport | itsp : Transportation/Shipping
gtrans : Transport | c333 : Non-governmental Contracts | ncdig : Corporate Digests | c33 :
Contracts/Orders | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir :
Politics/International Relations | gplan : Urban Planning/Development | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
fra : France | austr : Australia | proven : Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | medz : Mediterranean | weurz :
Western Europe

RE

PUB The Main Report Limited
AN Document TMRTNL0020140319ea3k0000h

Page31of315©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.