AirAsia X may need more funds, say analysts

AirAsia X may need more funds, say analysts

By B.K. Sidhu in Kuala Lumpur/The Star/23 November 2014

HD
CR
WC 945 words
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

23 November 2014
16:55
ANN Asia News Network
ANNT
English
Copyright 2014. ANN

TD

Kuala Lumpur (The Star/ANN) - AirAsia X may need to get more capital to the tune of 200 million ringgit
to 300 million ringgit in the near term to give it breathing space as its operation is restructured, say
analysts.

They felt Airasia X should raise the funds through a private placement or source it from the capital
markets. The proceeds, they say, will help it ride through the turbulent times given the competitive
landscape in the markets where it operates in.

¿It should get more capital, downsize the fleet and network and bring cost down," says an analyst.
As at end September, the airline¿s net operating cashflow stood at 212 million ringgit, with free cash of
64 million ringgit. Hence, the need to raise cash to meet its financial obligations, for aircraft financing to
operating expenditure, unless it can generate cash quickly, they say.

Airasia X is due to take delivery of eight planes next year, of which it has sold one, plans to sell another
next month, and enter into sale and leaseback for the remaining six.
Airasia X currently has 24 airplanes for its operations of which two are the A340 and one A330 aircraft
while 17 are on lease.

However, RHB Research in its report says that Airasia X is confident about the outlook for its current cash
level and may not need to raise cash from the market at this juncture.
If it chooses to, it has options to raise cash through debt (possibly via convertible bonds) and a sale and
leaseback of two of its aircraft in FY15 to improve its cash position.

RHB Research says that Airasia X will continue the tactical redeployment of its aircraft, ie by wet-leasing
some to third parties, improve overall income and maximise the utilisation of its planes. A wet lease is a
leasing arrangement whereby one airline provides an aircraft, complete crew, maintenance, and
insurance to another airline or other type of business and is paid by the hours.
The airline was thrust into the limelight after it reported 177 million ringgit core net loss for three months
ending Sept 30, 2014, and its first nine months of the year net loss swelled to 340 million ringgit. There
has been reports suggesting that AirAsia X is feeling the heat in having to pay salaries and there may be
a management reshuffle. This has been denied by its co-founder Tan Sri Tony Fernandes.
¿Essentially, Airasia X¿s problem is that it is not generating enough cash to sustain its operations,'' says
an analyst.

Fernandes has taken on a more hands on role of the airline since this week and has come up with a plan
to turn it around. He is taking a more active role setting the direction and working with the management
team.

The airline has also been dropping fares to match what Malaysia Airlines (MAS) has been offering. While
lower fares are ideal for travellers, the strategy has hurt Airasia X¿s yields.
As for the China market, demand waned after MAS flight MH370 disappeared in March. The shooting
down of MH17 further rocked the air travel market, causing all local airlines to suffer from weak demand.

Page200of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.¿There has been a drop in demand for air travel as fear of flying persists. During the Hari Raya holidays
the roads were choked because more people preferred to travel by road instead of flying, though the
impact is lesser now,'' says an industry official.

MAS has been on an overdrive to win customers following the MH370 and MH17 tragedies and is seen to
be dropping fares, and since 80 per cent of AirAsia X overlaps MAS¿ network, it also lowered fares to
stay in the competition, a strategy that has not bode well for the airline as the dropping of fares has been
at the expense of yields.

AirAsia X¿s yields fell 8 per cent for the third quarter of 2014, though load factor for the period remained
decent at 80 per cent.

Officials feels AirAsia X has also been overly bullish about the Australian market, adding capacity to an
overcrowded market.

The suggestion is for AirAsia X to cut its capacity to Australia by a quarter to half.
AirAsia X currently flies seven times weekly to Gold Coast, 14 times weekly each to Sydney, Melbourne
and Perth and five times weekly to Adelaide.

They feel AirAsia X should axe Adelaide for now, cut back by half the flight frequency to Melbourne,
Sydney and Perth given the over- capacity situation, and with fewer flights, the planes should be either
parked, or better utilised by its Thai AirAsia X or Indonesia AirAsia X units, where demand is better than in
Malaysia.

¿This cutback in capacity is to mitigate the problem,'' says an analyst.
As for China, the industry official suggested that AirAsia X suspend routes such as Xian and Chengdu for
now and reduce the frequency on some of the other routes.

¿Scale down on the bigger routes and knock off the smaller stations and in that way they can release the
aircraft,'' the expert says.

Affin Research believes that irrational competition could persist as MAS has yet to show signs that it will
remove capacity from its longer-haul routes. If so, AirAsia X¿s yields will remain compressed.

Raising fares is an option for AirAsia X, and industry officials believe the fares may be raised in the near
term to as high as 25 per cent, though drastic cost-cutting measures are more critical at this stage.

NS

cprpla : Private Placements | c17 : Funding/Capital | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter

RE malay : Malaysia | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | seasiaz : Southeast Asia

IPD ANN
PUB dpa Deutsche Presse-Agentur GmbH
AN

Document ANNT000020141123eabn00008

Page201of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.