Australia politics: Stranded

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Australia politics: Stranded

530 words
22 November 2014
Economist Intelligence Unit - ViewsWire
EIUCP
ViewsWire
3
English
(C) 2014 The Economist Intelligence Unit Ltd.

Australia and global warming: Stranded
Tony Abbott woos China and India as America rebuffs his climate policy

A HEATWAVE hovered over Brisbane, the state capital of Queensland, as world leaders gathered on
November 15th for a Group of 20 (G20) summit, the biggest such meeting Australia has hosted. Tony
Abbott, the prime minister, had hoped to limit their talks to topics that chimed with his domestic political
agenda: growth and jobs. Barack Obama, America's president, had other ideas. On his way to the talks,
Mr Obama delivered a speech to cheering students at the University of Queensland, calling on Australia
to do more to tackle climate change. To rub his message in, Mr Obama worried about the "incredible
natural glory of the Great Barrier Reef", off the coast of Queensland, which is threatened by global
warming.

The president's speech was carefully calculated. Three days earlier, Mr Obama had struck a deal with Xi
Jinping, China's president, at another summit in Beijing, in which the world's two biggest emitters of
carbon set targets to lower their outputs of greenhouse gases. The deal apparently caught Mr Abbott by
surprise. He had wanted to limit the G20's climate commitments to a line about energy efficiency. But
climate change dominated the Brisbane summit in the wake of Mr Obama's proclamation that "here in
the Asia Pacific, nobody has more at stake". Few can recall such a sharp public rebuke from Australia's
main strategic ally.

Australia is responsible for about 1.5% of global carbon emissions; measured by its output per person, it
is one of the highest polluters. Yet Mr Abbott has staked his political career on a combative approach to
climate action. As opposition leader four years ago, he unseated his predecessor as leader of the
conservative Liberal Party over a deal with the then Labor government for an emissions-trading scheme;
that deal sank. Mr Abbott won power last year after waging a scare campaign against a carbon tax Labor
had introduced instead; his government has since abolished it. Mr Abbott argued in Brisbane that climate
talks should happen elsewhere, not at meetings of the G20.

But the summit's climate pledges left Australia isolated. Mr Obama pointedly used his speech in Brisbane
to announce a $3 billion contribution to the Green Climate Fund, a UN body to help poor countries deal
with climate change. Japan, Germany and Canada also promised money.
Mr Abbott felt in warmer company after Mr Xi and Narendra Modi, India's prime minister, left Brisbane to
address Australia's parliament separately in Canberra. As Mr Xi spoke, Australia concluded a free-trade
agreement with China. It includes tariff cuts on Australian shipments of coal, demand for which in China
has grown rapidly in recent years. India is also a big market. Defiantly, Mr Abbott told the G20 leaders he
would be "standing up for coal". But the summitry has left him with difficult choices over Australia's
position on global warming as countries prepare for another summit in Paris next year--devoted entirely
to the climate.

RF
NS

EIU ViewsWire 22 Nov 2014 (T16:20), Part 3 of 25
gclimt : Climate Change | gglobe : Global/World Issues | gcat : Political/General News | genv :
Environmental News | gwea : Weather

Page213of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

austr : Australia | china : China | brisbn : Brisbane | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | queensl : Queensland
Politics

IPD
PUB The Economist Intelligence Unit, N.A., Inc.
AN
Document EIUCP00020141123eabm0002t

Page214of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.