Prayers for luckier second time around for Galaxy

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Prayers for luckier second time around for Galaxy

521 words
21 June 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
First
109
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

In this corner Aurora Oil & Gas, in another Galaxy Resources.

One a multi-bagger indicative of the rich rewards on offer in the resources sector when the planets
align, the other a value-destroying, shareholders nightmare.

Aurora went from shell company to billion-dollar takeover target in less than 10 years. Galaxy went
from an integrated lithium wannabe to roadkill in just six, somehow building, operating and then
closing its much-touted flagship mine in WA’s south all in the space of less than three years.
Along the way, it has burnt through more than $400 million of shareholders’ funds.

Yesterday, the group’s punch-drunk shareholders voted to give what Galaxy’s new management and
board are promoting as a fresh start by approving the $US230 million sale of the company’s sole
revenue-generator.
There wasn’t really a choice. Galaxy is pitching the sale of the at times troubled Jiangsu lithium
carbonate plant in China as a company saver — either the plant is sold or Galaxy is potentially put
under.

That didn’t make it any more palatable to some shareholders. Galaxy’s shares are trading at just
5.9¢. Back in September 2009, they closed as high as $1.48. Shareholders who subscribed to the 15
equity raisings since 2007 — the last in May 2013 at 8¢ — are all under water.

Despite its victory on Jiangsu, things didn’t go all Galaxy’s way yesterday during back-to-back
shareholders meetings at the Celtic Club. The company was forced to pull a string of resolutions
dealing with proposed and possible share and cash allocations to directors following opposition from
M&G Investments on corporate governance grounds.

Still, managing director Anthony Tse and chairman Martin Rowley, founder of Canadian metals
producer First Quantum, have passed a major hurdle. The next is to finalise the sale to China’s
Sichuan Tianqi Lithium, the owner of WA’s Greenbushes lithium mine.
With Tianqi assuming Jiangsu’s debt, Galaxy will emerge from the deal with more than $60 million in
cash after paying off its other debts.

Rowley, who hooked up with Galaxy via its ill-fated merger with Canada’s Lithium One in 2012, may
have passed on the WA company if he had known then what he knows now about Galaxy. But
having lured supporters into the company, reputation dictates that he try to salvage value for them.

The future is now about giving Galaxy another shot. Despite its own mishaps, it reckons the market
for lithium, increasingly used in batteries for cars and consumer electronics, notably mobile phones,
still has a long way to run.

Page146of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The focus has switched to its Sal de Vida project in Argentina, where First Quantum coincidentally is
widening its involvement via a $US433 million takeover of Canadian copper miner Lumina.
Galaxy believes Sal de Vida can be ushered into production for about $US100 million at a reduced
production rate of about 8000 to 10,000 tonnes a year of lithium carbonate.

Perhaps it will be a case of second time lucky.

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

galare : Galaxy Resources Ltd | barto : Aurora Oil & Gas Ltd | bytxen : Baytex Energy Corp
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document TWAU000020140620ea6l0004w

Page147of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.