Bargain hunters waiting to pounce

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Bargain hunters waiting to pounce

725 words
28 November 2014
The New Zealand Herald
NZHLD
C013
English
(c) 2014 The New Zealand Herald

Today’s plunge in iron ore is creating tomorrow’s acquisition targets.
With prices at a five-year low, only a handful of companies worldwide can make money selling iron
ore, according to UBS. Some Chinese mines have closed, while Australia’s Western Desert
Resources and British companyLondon Mining have already failed.

Pessimistic analysts expect the commodity to slide at least a further 14 per cent before the end of
next year as a supply glut continues.
Among the most vulnerable are Atlas Iron, BC Iron and Gindalbie Metals, all based in Perth,
according to financial services company Fat Prophets. All three are struggling with production costs
that are too high for the market.
Private funds, such as X2 Resources, which has raised as much as US$3.75 billion ($4.78 billion)
from investors, may be able to pick up bargains before an iron-ore rebound makes the assets viable,
says Ernst & Young.
“The smaller miners in both China and Australia could be the collateral damage,” said Freya
Beamish, a Hong Kong-based economist at Lombard Street Research. “Iron ore prices are on a
structural downturn that could play out over several years.”

The price slide has put even the biggest producers in play. In July Glencore approached Rio Tinto
with a deal that would have created the world’s largest mining company. Rio rejected the proposal
the following month.
Iron ore prices have almost halved this year, partly on concern that China’s economic slowdown will
weaken demand for the steel-making material.

At the same time, BHP Billiton, Rio and Vale have increased production to bolster their market
shares, creating a glut and preventing a price rebound any time soon.

“For those in the high-cost area, it’s a case of survival,” says Mike Elliott, Sydney-based global leader
for metals and mining at Ernst & Young. “If you’re only ever going to make money at the peak of a
commodity price cycle, then you may call it quits.”
London Mining, valued at more than US$800 million in 2011, went into administration last month.
Credit also dried up in September for Western Desert, which operates the Roper Bar project in
Australia’s Northern Territory. Receivers have started to look for potential buyers.

It’s not only tumbling prices that are threatening smaller producers. Companies unable to recover
their production costs also find it harder to obtain financing, while project write-downs become more
likely, says Greg Smith, head of research at Sydney-based Fat Prophets.
“There are going to be plenty of assets around or mothballed operations, if it gets to that,” says
Smith.

Page54of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Some miners close to breaking even at the current iron ore price might be able to withstand the
commodity’s slump by halting production until the market picks up, says Ernst & Young’s Elliott.
Those that can’t do that might also be targets, he says.

Funds such as London-based X2 Resources, co-founded by former Xstrata chief executive Mick
Davis, are logical buyers, according to Elliott. Some funds could wait years before profiting from an
investment and might be able to buy the assets “relatively cheaply”, he says.
Resources companies sitting on millions of tons of reserves, mining licences and other assets may
also appeal to activist investors who could push for changes to boost returns. For instance, a
break-up of Arrium, the iron ore producer that has fallen 85 per cent this year, might unlock value in
the company’s unit that makes rail wheels and metal balls, Morningstar said last month.
Shares of Atlas Iron, which digs for ore in Australia’s Pilbara region, have tumbled 83 per cent this
year. That’s even after it cut capital expenditure and raised cost-saving targets. BC Iron has dropped
89 per cent and Gindalbie has plunged 76 per cent.
According to UBS estimates, Gindalbie started losing money when iron ore fell below US$98 a
tonne, while Atlas and BC Iron became unprofitable when the price dropped through about US$80.
The stock collapses reflect doubts the companies would ride out iron ore’s price slump, says
Shannon Rivkin, a director at Rivkin Securities in Sydney.

“It’s guaranteed that we’ll see a lot more companies go out of business.”

— Bloomberg

RF
CO

IN

RE
PUB
AN

BBtakeover
gingol : Gindalbie Metals Ltd | lminip : London Mining plc | wesde : Western Desert Resources
Limited
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i2111 : Iron Ore Mining
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
W & H Newspapers Limited
Document NZHLD00020141127eabs0002v

Page55of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.