State urged to look local for architecture

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

PrimeSpace
State urged to look local for architecture

LISA ALLEN, PROJECTS
549 words
1 May 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
26
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

FINANCIALLY strapped local architects complain too much NSW government work is being awarded
to offshore parties — but other industry players say the state is merely reacting to the rapid
globalisation of architecture.
The private sector is also turning to international architects. Crown’s $1 billion hotel and casino at
Sydney’s Barangaroo will be designed by British firm Wilkinson Eyre, while Barangaroo South, a mix
of residential units, shops and offices, is being designed by London’s Lord Richard Rogers.

The NSW government recently awarded three multi-million-dollar engineering contracts to European
firms, including Italy’s Geodata Engineering and Salini Impregilo.

“In these times when firms are clearly under financial stress it’s a shame the NSW government is not
buying Australian,” said the managing director of one large architectural practice yesterday.

“The government is basically trying to drive prices down.’’ Chris Johnson, a former NSW government
architect, disagreed. “Clearly there is a global market for the provision of infrastructure projects and
also for the consultants that come with the delivery of projects,’’ said Mr Johnson, who is the chief
executive of the Urban Taskforce, a property industry lobby group.

“(Using international firms) is positioning us as a global city — we need to perform on the world stage.

“This is balanced by the fact that many Australian architectural firms are doing work around the world in
places like Dubai and Southeast Asia.’’ But the boom in architectural work in the Middle East is long
over and Asia is full of consultant architects trying to find work.

“This is because North America and Europe have little work and Australia has little architectural work,’’
one architect said.

Urban Development Institute of Australia chief executive Stephen Albin defended the NSW
government’s use of outside firms, saying international architects were improving local design.

“The NSW government is trying to create iconic buildings in the city and are going out and seeking
worldwide design advice, and what that does is create iconic buildings,’’ Mr Albin said. “The
government is giving a lot of work to overseas architects but they are lifting the game in Sydney and
what we are seeing is far better development.’’ However, Mr Albin conceded the tough local conditions
for architects and consultants.

“If you are at the bottom of the food chain, such as consultants, you can get squeezed on price,’’ he
said.

“We are seeking amalgamations and shake-ups — a lot of architects have had to become more
efficient or have had to sell their practices.’’ Architectural practice Woodhead was recently bought by
GHD, Peddle Thorp was sold to Chinese interests several years ago and Rice Daubney, another
Australian player, was last year acquired by HDR Architecture of the US.

Page283of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Infrastructure NSW said competition in a global marketplace allowed the state to tap into a broader
pool of industry expertise and ensure capital was well spent, and in many cases major tenders were
awarded to Australian firms that operate internationally or to consortiums that combined Australian
companies with international skills and expertise.“Extensive and robust tender processes are
conducted to ensure major infrastructure projects deliver value for money and meet the quality and
time frames required,” a spokesman for Infrastructure NSW said.

CO
IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

cgfr : Salini Impregilo SpA | salcos : Salini Costruttori SpA
i8371 : Architects/Surveyors | i837 : Technical Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | icre :
Real Estate/Construction | i502 : Heavy Construction | iconst : Construction
garchi : Architecture | gart : Art | gcat : Political/General News | gent : Arts/Entertainment
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140430ea51000e5

Page284of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.