Hope for 350 Mount Lyell miners after copper mine closure

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

IN

RE
PUB Australian Broadcasting Corporation
AN

Document ABCNEW0020140710ea7a0002v

Hope for 350 Mount Lyell miners after copper mine closure

Jane Ryan
301 words
10 July 2014
Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC) News
ABCNEW
English
(c) 2014 Australian Broadcasting Corporation

A new Tasmanian mine could begin operations within six months giving hope to hundreds who lost their
jobs this week.

There could be light at the end of the tunnel for 350 mine workers who lost their jobs on Tasmania's west
coast this week.

The Mount Lyell copper mine went into care and maintenance mode this week, while the Henty Gold
mine will close next year and while both will continue to prospect, neither mine will resume operations for
a number of years.

The loss of 350 jobs will have an immediate impact, but the flow on effects for contractors and local
business could push job losses as high as 1,200 according to West Coast Mayor Robyn Gerrity.

But, she says, a specially formed jobs Taskforce comprising the West Coast Council, state government
and other service providers, is now in negotiations with a new prospective mine for the region, with a
projected life span of at least 20 years.

"We've got the Avebury nickel mine over in Zeehan which was expected to employ 200 people and start
up in around April next year," the Mayor said.
"I have been in discussions with the Chairman of the company and between the Taskforce, the council
and the state government, we'll be able to bring the opening of that mine forward if people can possibly
hang in there for six months," she said.

Avebury Nickel Mines Ltd, formerly QCG Resources, will buy MMG's idle Tasmanian Avebury nickel mine
for $40 million and is looking to restart production in a quick timeframe.

The mine has been dormant since February 2009 due to poor the poor nickel price, but yesterday MMG
was given Chinese regulatory approval for the sale.

i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2114 : Copper Ore/Nickel Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources |
imet : Mining/Quarrying
tasman : Tasmania | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia

Page236of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.