Rio Tinto's $20b African iron ore dream closer

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Rio Tinto's $20b African iron ore dream closer

Peter Ker
565 words
28 May 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
24
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Resources - Simandou partners sign
Rio Tinto and Chinalco will no longer have their ambitions for the $US20 billion ($21.6 billion)
Simandou iron ore project held back by the Guinean government's inability to pay for its share, after
the signing of an investment framework between the parties reduced the funding burden on the
developing nation.

In an important circuit-breaker for the stalled iron ore mine, port and rail project, Rio, Chinalco, Guinea
and the World Bank's International Finance Corporation agreed to a set of ownership and development
terms that will guide the path to development of Africa's biggest infrastructure project later this decade.

Guinea previously held a right to 51 per cent of the rail and port part of the project, but had been unable
to stump up the billions required to fund its share of the construction costs. But under terms agreed on
Monday night, the 650-kilometre railway and port will be owned, built and operated by a third-party
group of "world-class international investors with the financial resources and technical skills to deliver
this large and complex project".

Guinea will no longer have to fund 51 per cent of construction, but will take 100 per cent ownership of
the rail and port after 30 years of operation. Both pieces of infrastructure will be multi-user, in a bid to
stoke development of other industries in Guinea, such as agriculture.
Separation of the rail and port projects will also reduce Rio's capital requirements, with the company
likely to be liable for between $US3 billion and $US4 billion to fund its stake in the mine project.
Guinea owns 7.5 per cent of the joint-venture company that will build the mine, and will not have to pay
to raise that to 15 per cent. Rio and Chinalco will begin the process owning 46.57 per cent and 41.3
per cent of the joint-venture company respectively, with both now holding slightly less than previously
expected. The IFC will own 4.6 per cent.
Guinea can raise its ownership stake to 35 per cent within 20 years but will have to pay "market rates"
for the final 10 per cent it acquires.
The joint-venture company will pay a royalty of just 3.5 per cent on all iron ore exports - less than half
the 7.5 per cent royalty Rio current pays on iron ore exports from its flagship Pilbara operations.

Given Simandou will not start production until the end of this decade, and will produce for about 35
years at least, the project has locked in a competitive royalty rate by international standards.

The deal did not explicitly state when production would start, but it is expected to be 2018 at the
earliest.
CLSA analyst David Radclyffe said Rio's 2018 target for first ore was "pretty ambitious".

Page124of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The investment framework received a mixed reception from the analyst community.

"I wouldn't see this as an immediate catalyst - there would be probably just as many people who would
look at it as a negative option because it potentially pushes Rio even further into the iron ore business
when there is some calling for increased diversification away from iron ore," Mr Radclyffe said.

Rio shares rose 26¢ to $61.21.

CO

IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

almcor : Aluminium Corporation of China Limited | rtz : Rio Tinto PLC | rtzcra : Rio Tinto Group | craaus
: Rio Tinto Ltd
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i224 : Non-ferrous Metals | i2245 : Aluminum | ibasicm :
Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
cpartn : Partnerships/Collaborations | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | china : China | gurep : Guinea | africaz : Africa | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | wafrz : West Africa
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020140527ea5s00046

Page125of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.