Morgan Stanley tepid on volume, eyes share

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Morgan Stanley tepid on volume, eyes share

Joyce Moullakis
1,008 words
16 June 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
20
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Exclusive Equity activity may take two years to return to former levels.
Australian equity trading volumes may take as long as two years to recover but Morgan Stanley is
targeting a top three ranking in institutional equities in the next 12 months, says joint Asia Pacific chief
Gokul Laroia.

In many parts of the world, investment banks and trading houses are suffering from lacklustre trading
volumes even as merger and initial public offering activity climbs. This year, the drop away in trading
has occurred well before the European summer and many, including Mr Laroia, are hopeful the worst
has passed.

"It's a very much region specific issue . . . It's very difficult to say we are going to see a broad recovery
in volumes because of one particular event that is going to occur, I don't think we subscribe to that
view," Mr Laroia told The Australian Financial Review during a visit to Sydney. "Having said that, we
are at a pretty low base right now so we expect and certainly hope it's going to get better."

He noted that Australian trading volumes may take one-to-two years to show a sustainable pick-up
after being impacted by factors including elevated market levels and the nation's connectivity to China.
However, if the market pulled back from recent highs, that may attract more investors to buy stocks.

"In the short term, a market correction could get [Australian] volumes going, but in the longer-term the
global links are important," Mr Laroia said.

Last month, volumes across the Australian Securities Exchange and Chi-X slumped to their lowest
May level in five years, according to IRESS data. The value of daily trading volumes fell short of
$4 billion in May, well off the pre-global financial crisis levels of $6 billion traded a day.

"The rest of Asia is driven by idiosyncratic events," Mr Laroia added, referring to events like elections
in India, which prompted a large rise in volumes, and political instability in Thailand, which saw
volumes drop off. Work to do in Australia
As structural reform continued in China, trading volumes may take one-to-two years to recover there
as well, and new Chinese sharemarket listings would likely contribute 35 per cent of the region's total
in the medium term, down from highs of about 60 per cent, he said. Morgan Stanley does, however,
expect a pick up in volumes in Japan in the second half of this year.

Separately, Mr Laroia is cautiously optimistic, but says it's too difficult to predict a broader return of
volatility to financial markets.

In Australia, he believes Morgan Stanley still has work to do to improve its wealth unit but expects the
firm will continue to win market share in local institutional equities, following a slow build of the division
and a marked improvement in the past three years.

Page193of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Morgan Stanley ranks fourth in institutional equities market share, with 8.1 per cent of Australian
volume for the year-to-date as at May 31. That is about double where it was in 2009.

Mr Laroia, who also heads up Morgan Stanley's Asian institutional equities and wealth management
units, is eyeing a top three spot in Australia.

"From a commission perspective we are probably top three already and if the panel rankings continue
to improve we will be there on volume in the next 12 months," Mr Laroia said. "Three years ago when
we did market share for Asia we had two slides, we had Asia and Asia ex-Australia, because the
Australian market . . . dragged us down. Now there is a real desire to include Australia because it's
accretive."

Globally, Morgan Stanley is attempting to make its business more resilient to shocks through a bigger
wealth management push. But Morgan Stanley's Australian wealth arm has confronted a turbulent few
years amid several changes of chief executives. The role is now merged with that of head of equities
Ian Chambers, matching the regional template. Overhaul necessary
Last month, however, the company outlined sweeping changes to the commissions it pays local
advisers, particularly cutting pay to those writing lower levels of revenue. Morgan Stanley's global chief
James Gorman has also said the firm wants to lower the compensation-to-revenue ratio in wealth
management. While the Australian measures have sparked some discontent within the unit, Mr Laroia
labelled the overhaul as necessary.

"Unless you actually have a business that consistently makes some money we are not going to be in a
position to invest in the business, and if we are not investing in the business, why are we running the
business," he said. "This will see us move to profitability which will then allow us to do more with the
business. We want to grow it [Australian wealth management]." 

Morgan Stanley is seeking 10 per cent to 15 per cent growth over the next 12 months in wealth adviser
numbers. There are currently 190 local advisers. But the sharp cuts to payments at the lower levels of
its commission grid, may prompt adviser departures when they come into effect in July.
Across the entire Australian unit, the firm expects headcount to remain broadly flat, but there is scope
to make some hires in specific sectors in investment banking, local boss Steve Harker said. Morgan
Stanley Australia ranks eighth this year in mergers and acquisitions advisory work, and is sitting in
second spot for equity capital markets deals.

Morgan Stanley has been heavily involved in state government privatisations, and also jointly advised
Transurban on its winning Queensland Motorways bid. The firm is working alongside Macquarie
Capital on the initial public offering of Monash IVF. Morgan Stanley did, however, miss out on a lead
role on the mooted float of Medibank Private. In the Asia Pacific, Morgan Stanley is tracking well this
year. It ranks second in equity capital issuance, on Dealogic numbers, and leads the pack in merger
advisory transactions.

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

dwitd : Morgan Stanley
i814 : Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | i83101 : Investment Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit |
ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140615ea6g0002y

Page194of238©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.