*S&PBulletin: Ratings On NAB Unaffected By Half-Year Results

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

*S&PBulletin: Ratings On NAB Unaffected By Half-Year Results

1,275 words
8 May 2014
18:07
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

8 May 2014 04:07 ET Press Release: S&PBulletin: Ratings On NAB Unaffected By Half-Year Results

The following is a press release from
Standard & Poor's:
MELBOURNE (Standard & Poor's) May 8, 2014--Standard & Poor's Ratings
Services
said today that its ratings on National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB;
AA-/Stable/A-1+) are unchanged following the announcement by NAB today of
its
fiscal 2014 first-half results.
While earnings of A$3.15 billion for the 2014 first-half year were 8.5% and
4.8% higher than the previous two half-year reporting periods, this was
primarily driven by the materially lower A$528 million charge for bad and
doubtful debts. Reported underlying profit of A$5.03 billion declined by
1.5%
compared with the prior half year driven by factors including slightly lower
revenues in the Australian Banking division and U.K. conduct-related
expenses.
Group credit quality ratios improved, with the ratio of past due and
impaired
assets to gross loans and acceptances decreasing to 1.52% at March 31, 2014,
from 1.69% at Sept. 30, 2013. The U.K. commercial real estate bad and
doubtful
debt charge for the half year declined significantly.
Capitalization remains consistent with our current outlook and rating. NAB's
common equity Tier 1 ratio at March 31, 2014, was 8.64% (APRA adaptation of
Basel III basis) and 10.46% (internationally-harmonized Basel III basis).
NAB
has articulated its common equity Tier 1 target range being between 8.75%
and
9.25% (APRA adaptation of Basel III basis) from Jan. 1, 2016.
RELATED RESEARCH
For

-- Australian Banking Sector Outlook: Ratings Resilience Anticipated

Page27of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.2014, Feb. 12, 2014
Under Standard & Poor's policies, only a Rating Committee can determine a
Credit Rating Action (including a Credit Rating change, affirmation or
withdrawal, Rating Outlook change, or CreditWatch action). This commentary
and
its subject matter have not been the subject of Rating Committee action and
should not be interpreted as a change to, or affirmation of, a Credit Rating
or Rating Outlook.
AUSTRALIA
Standard & Poor's (Australia) Pty. Ltd. holds Australian financial services
licence number 337565 under the Corporations Act 2001. Standard & Poor's
credit ratings and related research are not intended for and must not be
distributed to any person in Australia other than a wholesale client (as
defined in Chapter 7 of the Corporations Act).
Primary Credit Analyst: Gavin J Gunning, Melbourne (61) 3-9631-2092;
Secondary Contacts: Nico N DeLange, Sydney (61) 2-9255-9887;

gavin.gunning@standardandpoors.com

nico.delange@standardandpoors.com
Ryan Tsang, CFA, Hong Kong (852) 2533-3532;
ryan.tsang@standardandpoors.com

No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations,
model, software, or other application or output therefrom) or any part
thereof
(Content) may be modified, reverse engineered, reproduced, or distributed in
any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without
the prior written permission of Standard & Poor's Financial Services LLC or
its affiliates (collectively, S&P). The Content shall not be used for any
unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P and any third-party providers, as
well
as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees, or agents
(collectively
S&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness, or
availability of the Content. S&P Parties are not responsible for any errors
or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, for the
results obtained from the use of the Content, or for the security or
maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an "as
is" basis. S&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES,
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR
DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT'S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED, OR THAT THE
CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no
event
shall S&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect,
incidental,
exemplary, compensatory, punitive, special or consequential damages, costs,
expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income
or
lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by negligence) in
connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of
such damages.
Credit-related and other analyses, including ratings, and statements in the
Content are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not
statements of fact. S&P's opinions, analyses, and rating acknowledgment
decisions (described below) are not recommendations to purchase, hold, or
sell

Page28of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The Content should not be

any securities or to make any investment decisions, and do not address the
suitability of any security. S&P assumes no obligation to update the Content
following publication in any form or format.
relied
on and is not a substitute for the skill, judgment, and experience of the
user, its management, employees, advisors, and/or clients when making
investment and other business decisions. S&P does not act as a fiduciary or
an investment advisor except where registered as such. While S&P has
obtained
information from sources it believes to be reliable, S&P does not perform an
audit and undertakes no duty of due diligence or independent verification of
any information it receives.
To the extent that regulatory authorities allow a rating agency to
acknowledge
in one jurisdiction a rating issued in another jurisdiction for certain
regulatory purposes, S&P reserves the right to assign, withdraw, or suspend
such acknowledgement at any time and in its sole discretion. S&P Parties
disclaim any duty whatsoever arising out of the assignment, withdrawal, or
suspension of an acknowledgment as well as any liability for any damage
alleged to have been suffered on account thereof.
S&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other
in
order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective
activities. As a result, certain business units of S&P may have information
that is not available to other S&P business units. S&P has established
policies and procedures to maintain the confidentiality of certain nonpublic
information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses, normally
from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P reserves
the
right to disseminate its opinions and analyses. S&P's public ratings and
analyses are made available on its Web sites, www.standardandpoors.com (free
of charge), and www.ratingsdirect.com and www.globalcreditportal.com
(subscription), and may be distributed through other means, including via
S&P
publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about
our
ratings fees is available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
Any Passwords/user IDs issued by S&P to users are single user-dedicated and
may ONLY be used by the individual to whom they have been assigned.
No sharing of passwords/user IDs and no simultaneous access via the same
password/user ID is permitted. To reprint, translate, or use the data or
information other than as provided herein, contact Client Services,
55 Water Street, New York, NY 10041; (1) 212-438-7280 or by e-mail to:
research_request@standardandpoors.com.
Copyright (c) 2014 by Standard & Poor's Financial Services LLC.
All rights reserved.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

May 08, 2014 04:07 ET (08:07 GMT)

CO
IN

ncbnk : National Australia Bank Ltd
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services

Page29of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

RE

PUB
AN

c174 : Corporate Credit Ratings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News
| nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | c17 : Funding/Capital | c172 : Corporate Debt Instruments |
cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North
America
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document DJDN000020140508ea580016l

Page30of231©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.