Yum cha restaurant anchors $80m centre

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Yum cha restaurant anchors $80m centre

Samantha Hutchinson
450 words
29 May 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
53
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Sydney's largest yum cha restaurant is set to open in an $80 million multicultural shopping centre in
the heart of Bankstown.
Emerging retail developer Fam International has secured Golden Group Yum Cha as an anchor
tenant for Little Saigon, the 40,000-square-metre centre under construction on Chapel Street in
Bankstown, for an annual rental of more than $1500 per square metre.

The Chinese restaurant will occupy a 4500-square-metre space over two floors of the centre that
on completion will have six floors of specialty shops, two supermarkets, a childcare centre and
3537 square metres of function space.

"People hear the name [Little Saigon] and pigeonhole us as something just for the Vietnamese
community, but we're international . . . It was just our way of distinguishing ourselves from Centro,
which is the Goliath of the region," director David Fam said.

Little Saigon is the first major retail development for Fam International, a family-run business owned
by Vietnamese immigrants Richard Fam and his two sons David and John.

The business began with a corner shop on Petersham's Parramatta Road, before growing its
landholding with a number of shop fronts in the multicultural shopping strips of Bankstown, Fairfield
and surrounding suburbs.
The family's first big purchase came in 2001, when asset manager Tyndall put the ailing Novotel
Opal Cove Resort on the NSW Coffs Coast up for sale. The group swooped on the beachfront
landmark for $9.3 million.
They now own and operate the 136-room resort, in addition to a residential component alongside,
which has development approval for more than 60 townhouses, of which 11 have been built so far.
The retail project of Little Saigon has been a long time in the making. The group purchased the
slab on the former Purnell Holden Brothers dealership from Aldi in 2007, paying more than
$6 million.

But approval delays and difficulties securing finance meant construction did not start until 2011.

"We got quite caught up in the GFC [global financial crisis]," Mr Fam said. "Liquidity was really tight,
which meant we started and stopped and started again."
The group tried unsuccessfully to secure funding from a major bank, before turning to investment
group Alceon for about three-quarters of the $80 million project cost.

"It was really tough. We just didn't have that development track record back then," he said.

Page110of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The group expects the centre to open in December 2014.
They already have plans in place to refinance the loan with a major bank. "Buying the site in the
middle of the GFC was really tough. We've learnt along the way," he says.

IN
NS
RE
PUB
AN

ireest : Real Estate | iretail : Retail | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | icre : Real Estate/Construction
cprdop : Facility Openings | c24 : Capacity/Facilities | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140528ea5t00027

Page111of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.