Mineral to pitch cheaper Pilbara plan

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Mineral to pitch cheaper Pilbara plan

Amanda Saunders
599 words
14 June 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
37
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Mineral Resources will try to strike a deal with Chinese steel giant Baosteel over the development of
the $7.4 billion West Pilbara iron ore project at the centre of a takeover fight, claiming it can do it
cheaper and better than traditional infrastructure providers.

MinRes's manoeuvring comes as the suitors for the project's major shareholder, Aquila Resources,
upped the stakes late on Friday. Bidders Baosteel and rail major Aurizon made their $1.4 billion
all-cash offer for the junior "best and final", ahead of the Aquila board's response, expected this week.
The move is a clear signal the bidders are not afraid to walk away.

The stalled greenfield West Pilbara iron ore project is at the heart of the hostile takeover tilt.

Baosteel and Aurizon are playing hardball after a surprise on-market raid put the fight for Aquila up a
notch, with Mineral Resources chief and rich-lister Chris Ellison nabbing a stake of almost 13 per cent
in the junior on Wednesday.
The suitors' stance puts serious heat on Aquila chairman Tony Poli, who is also the company's largest
shareholder, with 28.9 per cent. He has gone to ground since the offer more five weeks ago. Mineral
Resources, which bought in at $3.75 a share, a premium to the bid price of $3.40, could also sweat a
little. But the group's end game is far greater than an attempt to lever the bid higher.
The $197 million share raid has bought the Perth mining services and processing group a role in the
West Pilbara project . MinRes will argue it can deliver the project for a substantially less than its $7.4
billion capex price tag, which assumes $6 billion for rail and a deep water port at Anketell point, and
$1.4 billion for the iron ore mine it underpins. The Perth firm is angling to design, construct and in
part operate the project . It is likely to present its case to the parties, with a focus on Baosteel, after the
Aquila board issues its target's statement this week.
In a market awash with iron ore and predictions of years of oversupply, MinRes will likely pitch that
$7.4 billion is too great a capital hurdle, deterring many financiers.
Keeping a lid on capex for the West Pilbara project is crucial given the grade of the ore resource,
which at 57 per cent is short of the 62 per cent benchmark and too low quality to be a threat to Rio
Tinto or BHP Billiton's Pilbara product.
Mining industry sources said MinRes was a nimbler, far more cost effective player than traditional
project and infrastructure providers. It does almost all its work in-house. It is understood MinRes could
seek to take a direct equity stake in the West Pilbara project, or to own and operate parts of the mine,
among many other options.
MinRes brought its Carina mining operations in the Yilgarn region into production just eight months
after receiving Western Australian government approvals – a feat credited in part to its ability to use its
own contractors. MinRes says it is the country's fifth largest iron ore producer, after picking up a series

Page4of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.of small mines. In the past four years, it has built iron ore processing equipment for a capacity of 100
million tonnes.

Aquila shares tumbled 12.4 per cent, or 44¢ on Friday, to close at $3.10, after Baosteel and Aurizon
told the market their offer was final.

CO

IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

aqures : Aquila Resources Ltd. | baois : Shanghai Baosteel Group Corp | dorval : Aurizon Mines Ltd |
hclamn : Hecla Mining Co
i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | igoldm : Gold Ore Mining | isteel
: Steel Production
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140613ea6e0000j

Page5of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.