Beware of what we might give away in a China FTA

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News - Opinion
Beware of what we might give away in a China FTA

Greg Wood
794 words
3 April 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
55
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Trade talks The US pact created unfortunate precedents for the Chinese deal now being negotiated.
Greg Wood

In its rush to conclude free-trade agreements the Abbott government risks compromising Australia's
national interests.

A decade ago Australia's free-trade agreement (FTA) negotiations with the United States concluded
prematurely. The Howard government attached more importance to the treaty as an affirmation of our
close alliance with the US than to its trade liberalising potential.

It was also worried George W. Bush may not be re-elected. Despite Australia making some
far-reaching concessions, the outcome was disappointing, later compromising our approach to our
trade negotiations with others. This time it's the Abbott government that's hell bent on a quick outcome
in FTA negotiations, most importantly with Japan and China.

Once you conclude a complex FTA you can't go back for your hat. FTAs actually rely on common
ground in the political, security and economic viewpoints of the parties. They can require intrusive,
behind-the-border adjustments to domestic law and policy and come with hidden costs, the copyright
provisions agreed with the US are an example.

With signature, "interested parties" transform into "vested interests" whose commercial equation is
bound up in the exchange of concessions that make up the agreement.

In the US FTA, Australia agreed to allow (most) future US investments in Australia, those valued below
$1 billion, to be exempt from screening by the Foreign Investment Review Board (FIRB).

That provision has recently been included in the FTA with South Korea, and, reputedly, is being sought
by Japan and China. Press reports have it that, with China, the Abbott government is inclined to agree
where an investment is made by Chinese "companies", but will continue to have FIRB screen all
investments by state-owned-enterprises (SOEs).

The US FTA concession has created an imprudent precedent. Arguably, with the US itself, this was not
such a big deal. The US has an open approach to inward foreign investment. Different models

In trade and commerce, as elsewhere, other countries are following different models from the US.
That's certainly so with China. Arguably, the most prevalent concept of the "enterprise" is moving away
from the profit-driven, US-style, free enterprise we assume prevails to what The Economist labels "state
capitalism".
Chinese investment and trade decisions take account of a mix of motives: the Chinese government's
sense of China's national interest; that China has regard to its economic security as well as national
security in its internal and external trade and investment decisions; through to resource control,
technology acquisition, as well as to financial profit.

Page152of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.In China the distinction between a private company and an SOE is murky. China's central and local
governments own more than 100,000 companies and favour many more.
Either way, Beijing maintains a long reach. Chinese investments abroad, with a value exceeding
$US100 million ($108 million) in some cases, $US300 million in others, are subject to vetting by
Beijing.
Traditionally China has inclined to autarky, to pursuing domestic self sufficiency. In certain areas –
supplies of iron ore and some other minerals are examples – that's not possible, though overseas
resource acquisition can temper that. Chinese subsidisation of agricultural production is now up there
with that of the US and Europe. In many areas China fosters the establishment of national champions,
particularly in sectors involving new technology: mobile phones, credit cards and others. Inwards
foreign investment into China is also carefully scrutinised. Foreign investment in many sectors is
constrained, at times blocked.
Clearly Australia stands to benefit from increased inwards Chinese investment. Current FIRB
thresholds and guidelines have not constrained Chinese investment into Australia, the stock of which is
now put at $93 billion, a figure rapidly reached from a standing start.

What we do need to do is to retain the right and flexibility to scrutinise significant foreign investment
from Australia's own broader, possibly changing, national interest viewpoint. Despite the claim for
identical arrangements, the US and Chinese approaches to foreign investment are not similar.
Including the $1 billion provision in the US FTA was an unfortunate miscalculation; denying ourselves
the possibility of meaningfully reviewing Chinese inflows would be a mistake of historic proportions.
When another country sees it as in its interest to retain the right to vet outwards investment from their
national interest viewpoint, we would be foolish not to reserve the right to be able to vet inwards
investment from our national interest viewpoint,
Slow down Mr Abbott: there's a future at stake.

Greg Wood is a former deputy secretary of the Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet and
international trade negotiator.

NS

RE

PUB
AN

nedc : Commentaries/Opinions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive
News Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140402ea430001c

Page153of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.