Traders look to gold as global data causes nervousness

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Traders look to gold as global data causes nervousness

Derivatives John Wasiliev
522 words
18 March 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
28
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

With key factors such as how the West might respond to geopolitical tensions in Ukraine and
continued emphasis on the Chinese economy, derivative traders are likely to focus this week on gold
on the upside and selling pressure on equity market, according to derivative market watchers.
With gold one of the best performing asset classes so far in 2014, trading advisers like Rivkin Global
investment manager Timothy Radford have increasingly been adopting a long bias in their
trading portfolios.

They will be looking to developments in the Ukraine as well as euro zone and American inflation data
to further fuel any upward trend in gold.
Gold, currently trading at six-month highs, notes senior market analyst at ThinkForex, Matt Simpson,
should continue to attract attention as traders seek safe havens while the tension in Crimea continue.
While Asian trading on Monday saw gold rally towards the $US1395 resistance level, the next likely
move beyond is $US1400.
Local sharemarket action also focused on gold and gold shares, observed CMC Markets chief
strategist Michael McCarthy, with Newcrest Mining stocks climbing above $12 and gold issues
offsetting falls across the mining sector.

That said, a fair bit of the market action focused on ex-dividend stocks, especially Woolworths, where
the more that 2 per cent decline represented not only the value of its dividend but also of its attached
franking credits. This dragged down the consumer staples sector while the nearly 3.5 per cent share
price decline in takeover target Leighton to $20.65 suggested investors were likely to accept a $22.50
bid from Hochtief.A pattern of consolidation

One thing to note about the Australian market is the S&P/ASX 200 index has gone nowhere so far in
2014. Monday saw it below its 2013 close which technical market followers like CMC's Ric Spooner
was not surprising given generally full valuations for a lot of stocks.

From a technical perspective, one of the emerging possibilities is the market is forming a large
consolidation pattern. The fact the index formed a peak at the same level as its last major peak in
October, reckons Spooner, creates the possibility a large ascending triangle is forming.

The boundaries of this formation would be the recent peak of 5457 and an upward sloping trend line
at around 5070. This is a range of about 7 per cent of the index. Closer by, the 38.2 per cent
Fibonacci retracement of the last major rally provides potential support around 5300.
Despite background concerns over China's economy, investors in the big resource stocks will
appreciate confirmation BHP Billiton will move to implement a buyback when its debt falls to
$25 billion. On current projections this looks likely to occur in the middle of this year and will be a
supportive element for the Australian index's largest stock which dipped below $35.50 on Monday.

Page294of315©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.This attracted a derivative strategy from Ord Minnett's Wai-Yee Chen of buying August BHP call
option for a recovery plus a dividend.

NS

RE
PUB
AN

c1522 : Share Price Movement/Disruptions | m1421 : Gold Markets | m11 : Equity Markets | c15 :
Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | m14 : Commodity Markets | m142 : Metals Markets |
mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mpcsmt : Precious Metals Markets | ncat : Content Types |
nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140317ea3i0002c

Page295of315©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.