CMC Markets UK Plc: Indices stall again, Australia jobs disappoint as badly as Canada

HD CMC Markets UK Plc: Indices stall again, Australia jobs disappoint as badly as Canada
WC 2,020 words
PD 17 January 2014
SN News Bites - Private Companies
SC NBPRCO
LA
CY Copyright 2014. News Bites Pty Ltd.
LP

English

NEWS BITES - PRIVATE COMPANIES
[Company Release]

TD

The positive enthusiasm that drove markets around the world higher over the last 24 hours appears to be
running out of gas this morning. Although the Dax has been able to consolidate yesterday"s breakout to an
all-time high, European indices have been trading moderately lower, while US indices have also dropped
back slightly as they encounter significant channel resistance near their previous highs.

As we move into the core part of earnings season individual news driven action may become the primary
driver for stocks rather than big macro data for the next week until traders start to position for the big
FOMC meeting at the end of the month. Today, Citigroup delivered the first big miss while Best Buy
reported a 0.8% drop in same store sales over the holiday selling season.

In commodity action, natural gas is soaring ahead of today"s storage report with the street looking for a big
drawdown off of last week"s polar vortex. The big question though is whether this may be the last hurrah
for the season or if there is more cold weather to come?

The big action in currency markets today has been the collapse of AUD (and concurrent S&P/ASX rally)
off of a very disappointing job report that was pretty much as bad as Canada"s. The big drop in full-time
employment and a downward revision to last month"s job increase also spooked traders. This sparked
speculation that the RBA may have to cut interest rates to manage the transition away from the resource
boom. This weekend"s GDP data from China may give a better indication of the challenges facing
resource exporters moving forward.

Corporate News

Bombardier had bad and good news today. The in-service date for its flagship C-Series jet program has
been delayed to the second half of 2015 to accommodate a longer than expected test flight program.
Offsetting this, it booked a C-Series order from Saudi Arabia worth up to $1.89 billion for up to 26 aircraft.

Highlights of today"s earnings reports include:

Goldman Sachs adjusted EPS $5.13 vs street $4.18

Citigroup $0.82 vs street $0.95

Economic News

Significant economic announcements released yesterday afternoon and overnight include:

US jobless claims 326K vs street 328K

US consumer prices 1.5% as expected vs previous 1.2%

Australia employment change (22K) vs street 10K; previous month revised down to 15K from 21K

Australia unemployment rate 5.8% as expected

Australia full-time jobs (31K) vs previous 15K

Page112of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Brazil interest rate raised 50 bps to 10.50% more than the 25 bps increase to 10.25% that had been
widely expected

Brazil retail sales 7.0% vs street 6.2%

Germany consumer prices 1.4% as expected

Eurozone consumer prices 0.7% as expected

Economic reports due later today include:

10:00 am EST US Philadelphia Fed street 8.7

10:00 am EST US NAHB housing market street 58

10:30 am EST US natural gas storage street (300 BCF)

11:10 am EST Outgoing FOMC chair Bernanke speaking

Click here for the full original announcement
COMPANY BACKGROUND

ACTIVITIES

CMC Markets UK been an established player in the spread betting industry for over 22 years. Last year
alone we were trusted to execute over 31 million trades.

TOP MANAGEMENT

The Chief Executive Officer is Peter Cruddas

BUSINESS NEWS ROUND UP

16 January 2014: CMC Markets UK Plc: Europe cools ahead of another earnings dose from US banks.
[Company Release] European markets have cooled somewhat after yesterday"s rampant afternoon
session, posting slight losses after Euro CPI inflation failed to excite after hitting estimates. Bulls won"t be
too worried after yesterday"s session saw markets surge across the board, taking the DAX to new all-time
highs and bringing the FTSE within sight of its 1999 peak of 6950.

Click here for the full original announcement

16 January 2014: CMC Markets UK Plc: Inflation data in focus in Europe and US
[Company Release] Another positive finish and a record close for the S&P500 in US markets last night
has seen investors set aside concerns about Fed tapering and become more comfortable with the idea
that, despite a poor payrolls number last week, the US economy looks set to continue to show resilience,
helped by a more positive backdrop at home and in Europe, despite some concerns expressed last week
that weather related problems were behind last week"s payrolls miss. Even if the weather was a factor,
and this doesn"t seem likely, you would have thought that there would be some other evidence to support
that belief, but thus far every piece of economic data from various surveys doesn"t support that
conclusion, while the January Empire Manufacturing survey yesterday blew away market expectations on
every measure, despite the recent unseasonably cold polar weather.

Click here for the full original announcement

15 January 2014: CMC Markets UK Plc: World bank"s global growth upgrade pushes Europe higher
[Company Release] An upgrade to the global growth outlook from the World Bank has given European
stocks a kick this morning, adding to yesterday"s gains ahead of pre market earnings from Bank of
America. Yesterday"s results from Wells Fargo and JP Morgan got us off to a decent start for the Banks,
minus one off legal costs for the latter, and the figures are likely to be in focus on a day otherwise light in
Economic data. Burberry stock has lost ground since CEO Angela Ahrendts announced her move to Apple
back in October, but she will certainly be leaving the company in good shape, with today"s update
confirming a 14% hike in retail revenue"s after a strong Christmas quarter.

Click here for the full original announcement

15 January 2014: CMC Markets UK Plc: Europe set to open higher after US rebound

Page113of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.[Company Release] It never ceases to amaze how financial markets can turn a negative into a positive
and so it was with yesterday"s positive reaction to December"s US retail sales numbers and the
subsequent rebound in the S&P500, but as with all things it depends on how the news is dressed up.
Having experienced its worst decline in over two months on Monday, yesterday"s US equity market rally
was the best performance so far this year, and was largely attributed to a 0.2% improvement in US retail
sales for December, which was better than the 0.1% reading markets had been expecting. Dig a little
deeper and the numbers tell a different story, because going into yesterday"s figures US retail sales for
the fourth quarter were showing a rise of 1.3%, in the form of 0.6% for October and 0.7% for November.
After the data release these previous numbers were revised down to 0.5% and 0.4% respectively, so in
actuality we saw a decline of 0.2% to Q4 retail sales yesterday, and not an increase, as the net Q4
number fell back to 1.1%. Combine that with hawkish comments from new FOMC voting members Charles
Plosser and Richard Fisher with respect to further cuts to monetary stimulus and fairly indifferent earnings
releases from JP Morgan Chase and Wells Fargo and you wonder what has driven the moves of the last
couple of days. The bond markets appear to have reacted to the Fed comments with 10 year yields
jumping back 5 basis points, after Monday"s declines, while Europe"s markets also look set to open on a
fairly positive note this morning, following the positive lead from the US and Asia. Today"s earnings
announcements see Bank of America coming to the table while on the economic data front most of the
attention will be on inflation and US factory gate prices for December, and Empire manufacturing for
January followed by the Federal Reserve"s Beige Book of economic conditions which in the wake of last
week"s disappointing payrolls numbers will be dissected for any evidence of the so-called weather effect
cited by some commentators for the disappointing December employment number. Will the Beige Book
survey of the Fed regions affirm that weather factors caused disruption to economic activity in the month of
December? If not then that places a significant question mark over the accuracy of last week"s numbers.
Given the poor weather seen on the eastern seaboard in the past three weeks the latest Empire
manufacturing survey for January could well also be a weak number, even though analysts expect a
reading of 4.5, up from 0.98 in December. As far as European markets are concerned the only data of
note is the latest 2013 German GDP number which is expected to show a fairly weak performance for last
year with a fall from 0.7% to 0.5%, though the economy ministry is likely to stress that economic
performance is picking up sharply heading into 2014. EURUSD - the euro continues to struggle anywhere
near the 1.3700 area but has made a higher low for the past four days which suggests that we could once
again be heading back towards the main resistance, currently at 1.3875/80.

Click here for the full original announcement

14 January 2014: CMC Markets UK Plc: Late US sell-off and Asia slide set to see Europe open lower.
[Company Release] Since Friday"s disappointing payrolls report we"ve heard from a number of Fed
policymakers who insisted that any decision to taper further would not be swayed by last week"s numbers
with Atlanta Fed President Dennis Lockhart following St. Louis Fed member James Bullard by saying that
he would continue to support further reductions in stimulus. This seems to have accounted for the sharp
sell-off seen late yesterday evening which saw the S&P500 post its worst day in two months, as the dial
starts to shift away from what had been until recently a one way bet on stock markets. Given that this
year"s voting members now include the rather more hawkish Dallas Fed"s Richard Fisher and Charles
Plosser of the Philadelphia Fed, the prospect of another reduction of stimulus at the end of this month, set
against rather lofty valuations has seen investors decide to take some money off the table in a week that
sees US earnings start to come in thick and fast starting with JP Morgan this afternoon. Given that Plosser
and Fisher are also due to speak later this afternoon on the economic outlook it probably won"t take a
genius to figure out that they could well be hawkish in any comments they make with respect to stimulus
reduction, and this could well have been another factor behind yesterday"s weakness, along with Goldman
Sachs suggesting that markets could be in line for a 10% correction. Despite this US bond markets have
continued to see yields fall back suggesting that while equity markets might be worried about another
taper bond markets aren"t, as yet. As a result we can expect to see Europe"s markets open sharply lower
this morning with the main focus in the morning session likely to be on the latest UK inflation numbers for
December. Last month saw UK inflation for November fall to a four year low at 2.1% largely as a result of
falling fruit and vegetable prices and the fact that recent utility price rises had yet to kick in. In December
the expectation is for prices to remain at 2.1% on an annualised basis despite the effect of these price
rises, which does seem rather optimistic given the steepness of the rises, though month on month prices
are expected to rise 0.5%. The thinking may be that heavy pre-Christmas discounting could well offset the
effect of the higher gas and electric prices.

Click here for the full original announcement

NS

c1521 : Analyst Comments/Recommendations | c1522 : Share Price Movement/Disruptions | ebeige :
Federal Reserve Surveys | npress : Press Releases | m12 : Debt/Bond Markets | c15 : Performance | c152
: Earnings Projections | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat :
Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter

Page114of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

usa : United States | austr : Australia | uk : United Kingdom | cana : Canada | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz :
Western Europe

IPD ACTIVITIES; TOP MANAGEMENT; BUSINESS NEWS ROUND UP
PUB News Bites Pty Ltd (Europe)
AN Document NBPRCO0020140117ea1h001gx

Page115of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.