Bell Potter Wary China Steel Output May Fall, Hit Iron-Ore Prices -- Market Talk

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Bell Potter Wary China Steel Output May Fall, Hit Iron-Ore Prices -- Market Talk

1,705 words
22 July 2014
12:16
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

Contact us in Singapore. 65 64154 140; MarketTalk@dowjones.com

0216 GMT [Dow Jones] Iron-ore prices have stabilized after a surplus-induced tumble in recent months.
The next risk to prices: a seasonal downturn in Chinese steel production. "China's blast furnace steel
production is highly seasonal," Bell Potter analysts Stuart Howe and Fred Truong write in a note. Since
2010, blast furnace steel production has tended to fall 12%-20% in August-October compared with its
February-July peaks, they estimate. "Domestic Chinese iron-ore production also tends to strengthen into
the second half of the calendar year," they say, adding: "Should the seasonality continue, seaborne
iron-ore demand could again come under pressure" in 3Q14. Iron ore fell 0.6% Monday to US$96/ton.
(rhiannon.hoyle@wsj.com; Twitter: @RhiannonHoyle)

0214 GMT [Dow Jones] BMD CPO is "stuck" in a tight MYR2,280-MYR2,330/ton range with downside
risk setting in after prices closed below the MYR2,330/ton level, says a Kuala Lumpur-based broker.
Crude palm-oil is weighed by the weak soy complex and ample oilseeds production this year, although
positive export data recently is likely to limit losses, says another broker in the Malaysian capital.
Benchmark October CPO closed 0.5% lower at MYR2,297/ton Monday. (huileng.tan@wsj.com; Twitter:
@huileng_tan)

0146 GMT [Dow Jones] USD/MYR has just entered the daily Bollinger downtrend channel -- which caps
at 3.1730 -- and is likely to drop further to the base of the channel at 3.1560 on an intraday basis,
implying a stronger ringgit versus the U.S. unit. The lack of follow-through from the risk aversion seen
late last week has convinced traders that there is little panic in the market - and that they should therefore
sell the safe-haven dollar. The ringgit suffered moderately when news of the MH17 crash surfaced last
Thursday. But now most market participants expect little repercussion from the alleged downing of the
Malaysia Airlines flight by pro-Russian separatists. Ringgit traders are back to focusing on general U.S.
dollar direction and broader signs of investor sentiment. USD/MYR is now at 3.1730 from Monday's close
of 3.1715. (ewen.chew@wsj.com)
0145 GMT [Dow Jones] Despite the usual buy-the-rumor-sell-the-news momentum to political events,
such as the Indonesian presidential election, the rupiah may still rally further on results confirming a
Widodo victory, Rabobank says. That's because "there has been particular uncertainty over this election
due to the tight margin and worries over electoral irregularities," Rabobank explains. But the bank says
no such rally is expected if presidential contender Prabowo Subianto still disputes the official vote count.
The rupiah strengthened to an eight-day high of 11,500 against the U.S. dollar Tuesday morning. Spot
USD/IDR was recently at 11,515. (jerry.tan@wsj.com)
0132 GMT [Dow Jones] WorleyParsons Ltd. (WOR.AU) is a tough nut to crack. "No company has given
us a greater reminder over the past few years of the perils of just believing what your model tells you,"
Credit Suisse analysts led by Mark Samter write in a note. "A confluence of factors make us more
nervous on the short term for Worley, but equally as convinced that there is a point when you want to pin
your ears back on this stock," they say. The analysts argue Worley is a capital-light, high cashflow
business with the majority of its revenues coming from the oil-and-gas sector, which has expanded
around 10% CAGR for four decades. They also say the longer the current downturn in investment

Page155of234©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.continues, the stronger the next upcycle should be. Still, they are wary. "With continuing weak markets
and FX turning against them, we are concerned that the risks to our A$276 million NPAT (net profit after
tax) forecast are to the downside," they say. WOR trades up 0.7% at A$18.50.
(rhiannon.hoyle@wsj.com; Twitter: @RhiannonHoyle)

0132 GMT [Dow Jones] A number of gold miners need to build a pipeline of projects capable of replacing
existing production from 2018, making M&A activity more of a theme among listed stocks, says
Macquarie. Potential acquirers include Goldcorp (G.T), Kinross Gold (K.T) and OceanaGold Corp.
(OGC.AU) while Macquarie's lengthy target list includes AuRico Gold (AUQ.T) and Kirkland Lake Gold
(KGI.T). "With a volatile gold bid mainly driven by macroeconomic events from Russia-Ukraine, we still
believe and valuations amongst the single asset producers and developers still being attractive, we
expect a number of accretive deals with high ROI potential to be completed in this volatile market before
the year-end," Macquarie says. Deal emphasis will be on producing mines.(david.winning@wsj.com;
@dwinningWSJ)
0127 GMT [Dow Jones] Momentum in policy easing in China's property sector is picking up, from both
the central government and local authorities, notes Barclays Research. According to a report from 21st
Century Business Herald, China's housing minister Chen Zhenggao said in a recent meeting that
destocking of housing inventory is a priority. This means local authorities would be more flexible in their
own property measures and the policy environment will likely become more accommodative. Meanwhile,
the securities regulator approved the issuance of a domestic corporate bond by mid-size developer
Future Land Development Holdings (1030.HK), "suggesting further liquidity easing for developers."
"While the physical housing market has stayed quiet amid the slack season, the improving policy and
liquidity prospects should be supportive for share price performances," Barclays adds.
(esther.fung@wsj.com, Twitter: @estherfung)
0119 GMT [Dow Jones] Hong Kong equities are seen recovering slightly as geopolitical tensions around
Ukraine ease, after the UN Security Council unanimously voted to allow investigators access to the crash
site of flight MH17, averting a stand-off between the West and Russia. The Hang Seng Index fell 0.3% to
23,387.14 yesterday, the third consecutive day of declines. Index futures nudge up 0.2% ahead of the
market open, as RHB Retail Research says technical indicators show that "the upside drive might be
losing some strength." Inflation data for Hong Kong released yesterday showed consumer prices rising
at 3.6%, in line with market expectations but the slowest increase in more than a year. ING says falling
clothing and footwear prices during the month shows "evidence of declining inflation expectations" in the
city, having previously been boosted by rising property values. (gregor.hunter@wsj.com; Twitter:
@gregorhunter)

0107 GMT [Dow Jones] Market focus over the next few days will be on U.S. housing data (existing sales
out later in the global trading day and new residential sales Thursday) and euro zone PMI Thursday that
could help weaken the EUR/USD, says Nomura Securities chief FX strategist Yunosuke Ikeda. Solid U.S.
housing data likely given substantial recovery in business sentiment among U.S. housing industry. On
the other hand, euro zone economy appears to have entered cyclical weakness. The differential in
economic conditions could help weaken the EUR/USD but "unlikely to lead to a big trend" with many
short-term players expecting speculation about Fed's monetary policy unlikely to spread until next month.
The EUR/USD now at 1.3526 against 1.3525 late Monday in New York. (hiroyuki.kachi@wsj.com)

0058 GMT [Dow Jones] New Zealand's central bank is likely to "plough on with its hikes to ensure limited
back-sliding in two- and three-year mortgage rates that are little changed from the beginning of the year,"
says Greg Gibbs, Head of Asia-Pacific Markets Strategy at RBS. Gibbs is expecting a 25bp rate increase
Thursday "despite evidence that inflation is more contained and the momentum in the economy has
waned a little further since 1Q." However, the central bank may then "decide to hint at a pause after
significant rate rises this year and a stronger NZD," he says. If so, "it may cause a modest further
weakening in the NZD," he says. The NZD/USD is at 0.8677. (rebecca.howard@wsj.com; Twitter:
@FarroHoward)

0052 GMT [Dow Jones] The Nikkei is up 0.6% at 15302.73, firming before a series of earnings results for
the April-June quarter are released later this week, says Mitsushige Akino, chief fund manager at
Ichiyoshi Investment Management. Japanese stocks are also tracking some gains posted in New York
and other markets over the past two sessions as fears eased over Eastern Europe and Middle East
geopolitical concerns. Tokyo markets were closed Monday for a national holiday. "Fundamentally,
though, nothing about geopolitical risk has changed," he says. "We are keeping an eye on it." Of 33
Topix subindexes, 31 sectors are higher with steel leading gains. Nippon Steel & Sumitomo Metal
(5401.TO) is up 2.2% to Y310.6.(kosaku.narioka@wsj.com)
0039 GMT [Dow Jones] The rupiah may suffer from a "buy-the-rumor-sell-the-fact" phenomenon as
Indonesia releases the results of its presidential election. As most investors have positioned for a win for
Jakarta governor Joko Widodo, profit-taking could see the USD/IDR bounce back out of the daily

Page156of234©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Bollinger downtrend channel that currently caps at 11,610. But if this resistance level is respected, and
the dollar slips further past 11,570 - the base of the daily Ichimoku Cloud support zone -- there might be
more rupiah strength ahead. Market players have already factored in a win for the crowd favorite Widodo,
but economists are likely to highlight the lack of legislative majority for the victorious political alliance as a
mildly negative factor. The wild card might be that the Golkar party, which backed main rival Subianto
Prabowo, decides to switch sides and ally with Widodo's PDI-P. USD/IDR closed Monday at 11,570 and
is expected to open around that level Tuesday. (ewen.chew@wsj.com)

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

July 21, 2014 22:16 ET (02:16 GMT)

IN

NS

RE

i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | isteel : Steel Production |
ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mirono : Iron Ore Markets | namt : All Market Talk | ncmac :
Commodities Asset Class News | ndjmt : Dow Jones Market Talk | neqac : Equities Asset Class News |
nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | m14 : Commodity Markets | m142 : Metals Markets | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | indon : Indonesia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries
| dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | seasiaz : Southeast Asia

PUB Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
AN

Document DJDN000020140722ea7m0001v

Page157of234©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.