Baking firm offer needs ‘sweetening’

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Agribusiness
Baking firm offer needs ‘sweetening’

SUE MITCHELL and
499 words
1 May 2014
Stock Journal
FSTOCJ
19
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

MAX MASON

ICONIC brands White Wings, Wonder White and MeadowLea could become consumer staples in Asia
if Goodman Fielder and its shareholders convince the $18-billion Singapore-based oils trader Wilmar
International and Hong Kong investor First Pacific to sweeten a $1.8-billion takeover proposal.

Goodman Fielder has denounced as "opportunistic" an initial 65 cents a share offer from Wilmar, which
owns CSR's former sugar assets, and First Pacific, which controls 50 per cent of Indonesia's largest
food group, IndoFoods.

But Australia's largest baker, which has seen underlying earnings halve in the past six years, says it is
willing to discuss any proposal that maximises value for shareholders.
"The board of Goodman Fielder remains focused on maximising shareholder value, and will be
constrictive in relation to proposals that are consistent with this objective," Goodman Fielder said, after
meeting with First Pacific and Wilmar principals over the weekend.

Many of Goodman's shareholders paid $2 a share in its $2.1b initial public offer in 2005 and have
become frustrated with the company after years of restructuring, asset write-downs and profit
downgrades.

The latest downgrade on April 2 wiped more than 20pc off the shares and appears to have been the
trigger for the offer.

Analysts believe Wilmar and First Pacific could afford to pay as much as 75c or 80c a share, based on
multiples paid in recent consumer food transactions such as Manassen Foods and Warrnambool
Cheese and Butter, and taking into account estimated synergies between $10 million and $20m.

Goodman's future now lies with Perpetual Investments, which owns 12.23pc, and Ellerston Capital,
which paid about 65c for much of its 13pc stake.

Together, the two are in prime position to negotiate a higher offer with Wilmar and First Pacific, and
force the Goodman Fielderboard to engage.
Wilmar and First Pacific would prefer a friendly deal through a board-backed scheme of arrangement
but analysts said they may have to go hostile at some stage.
Goodman, which makes Wonder White and Helga's bread, Meadow Lea margarine and Praise salad
dressings, said the highly conditional offer "materially undervalues" the company.

"The proposal represents a unique and compelling opportunity for Goodman Fielder to maximise value
for its shareholders and create a leading Asia-Pacific agricultural and consumer staples joint venture
with strong financial resources and Asian understanding," Wilmar and First Capital said in a joint
statement.

Page196of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Wilmar and First Pacific plan to take Goodman's market-leading consumer brands and intellectual
property into Asia, taking advantage of Wilmar's upstream sourcing and procurement capabilities and
First Pacific's downstream distribution capabilities through IndoFoods.
Analysts said First Pacific was also keen to take advantage of Goodman's NZ dairy business by
exporting milk to Indonesia and Malaysia. Goodman received offers for the dairy business, and this
may have been another trigger for the bid.

CO
IN
RE
PUB
AN

fdgl : Goodman Fielder Ltd
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp : Consumer Goods
saustr : South Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FSTOCJ0020140430ea510000n

Page197of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.