Guvera has smart start

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Guvera has smart start

575 words
7 March 2014
Gold Coast Bulletin
GCBULL
GoldCoast
35
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

GIANT Chinese IT products company Lenovo has struck a deal to place an app developed by Gold
Coast-based free music-streaming company Guvera on its next generation of smartphones.
The deal comes on the back of support for Guvera by Australia’s AMMA Private Equity which has
invested $45 million to fund growth and development of the business and is a major shareholder in the
company.

AMMA chief executive Paul Jansz unveiled the deal yesterday and said the Guvera app would be
included “on the glass” of Lenovo’s new S-Series smartphones.
He said the tie-up was a huge windfall for the company along the lines of the relationship between
iTunes and Apple.

Lenovo, at the recent 2014 Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, Spain, said the new smartphone with
app would be rolled out to 30 countries including the massive Indian market from April.
Lenovo chief executive Yang Yuanqing pledged last month to make the company the world’s
third-biggest smartphone seller after the firm announced a 30 per cent profit surge.

Mr Yuanqing speaking at the Barcelona congress said Western markets were mature and that to grow,”
you must focus on emerging markets, particular those poor people”.

He said Lenovo releases 40 or 50 smartphone models a year to meet the diversity of needs in the
emerging markets.

Making cheap phones available would help companies expand the business in developed countries,
too, he said, adding that even in the US, not everyone wanted or could afford a high-end smartphone.

Mr Jansz said AMMA had provided significant capital over a number of years to enable Guvera to
launch the app and “to dramatically grow its subscriber numbers to a point where it is now a major
player in the global music-streaming market.

“The launch of the mobile app in 2013 exceeded our expectations and it is very exciting to have backed
a company which continues to innovate and grow,” he said.
“Guvera’s partnership with Lenovo, a US$34 billion personal technology giant, is an outstanding
success story for a local company and vindicates AMMA’s strategic decision to fund the growth and
development of the business.’’ The Guvera-Lenovo app’s success is the latest milestone in a strong 12
months for AMMA Private Equity which tripled its business during the period and established an office
in Singapore. Through its strong association with the accounting industry, AMMA is offering investors an
alternative to traditional financial planning.
AMMA lays claim to being the only private equity house to work with the accounting industry to offer
clients boutique investments with a combination of shares/equity and income-based products.

Page51of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.It invests in the worldwide app market, and property and claims a rate of return of 8 per cent over 24
months or 9 per cent over 36 months paid quarterly.
“The AMMA model provides the accounting industry with the ability to add a private equity division to
support financial planning divisions to offer clients and investors management expertise which ensures
our investors’ funds are invested prudently and with the goal of providing a later stage exit and return on
investment,’’ Mr Jansz said.

“We have developed particular expertise in technology-based companies which provide a clear
value-add for the end consumer.“There is an increasing number of these start-up opportunities in
Australia and we look forward to assisting them in their growth plans.”

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

guverl : Guvera Ltd | letech : Lenovo Group Ltd | legndh : Legend Holdings Ltd
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i330202 : Software | i3302021 : Applications Software | icomp :
Computing | itech : Technology
gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document GCBULL0020140306ea370001q

Page52of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.