Shell Is Planning to Build a Boat To Tap Remote Natural-Gas Fields

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Shell Is Planning to Build a Boat To Tap Remote Natural-Gas Fields

By Justin Scheck
669 words
30 January 2014
The Wall Street Journal Asia
AWSJ
15
English
Copyright © 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Royal Dutch Shell PLC says it has a way to spend less on tapping remote natural-gas fields. There's
just one catch: It will cost at least $10 billion, according to people who have worked on the project.
Shipyard workers in South Korea are building a hull for the Anglo-Dutch company that stretches
more than 490 meters from bow to stern. The boat will drop anchor in a natural-gas field, chill the gas
into liquid and pump it into tankers.

The vessel, christened Prelude, will produce enough natural gas to supply Hong Kong for a year,
according to Shell. The company says the giant project will help Shell develop gas fields that are too
small or far-flung to justify the pricey pipelines and onshore processing plants needed for offshore
gas fields.

Shell hasn't announced a completion date for Prelude, now a bright red hull afloat in the shipyard, but
it likely is months away. Workers must attach the 32-meter-tall turret that will process the natural gas.
Shell is plowing ahead with Prelude even as the oil giant tries to rein in overall spending. The
company recently sold a stake in another Australian gas project and abandoned plans to build a
plant in the U.S. to convert natural gas to diesel.
To compete in a world where the easy oil is gone, "you have to have the idea, you have to have the
engineering solution, and you have to have the guts to put it into reality," says Matthias Bichsel,
Shell's head of major projects.
The idea of a floating gas barge has been around at least since 1975. An employee of a company
owned by reclusive billionaireHoward Hughes published a paper proposing such a vessel, which
could tap fields too far offshore or with "too small an estimated reserve to justify the tremendous
capital investment" of onshore plants and pipelines.

Some engineers suggested concrete-hulled boats, vessels made out of steel and even a big barge
with a hole in the middle that engineers called "the doughnut," says Neil Gilmour, Shell's vice
president in charge of natural gas. Every idea was written off as too expensive or risky.

In 2007, Shell discovered a gas field more than 160 kilometers off the Australian coast. The gas field
wasn't large enough to justify tens of billions of dollars for pipelines and onshore processing, and
Shell geologists questioned how productive it would be, according to people involved in the process.

Shell executives also debated the project, but top officials decided in 2011 to go ahead with it, partly
on the rationale that the boat also could be used at a natural-gas field discovered nearby in 2009.

The project's design challenges include trying to cram a processing plant onto the vessel and
minimizing the amount of sloshing by liquid gas in the hull.
Australia has drawn other energy companies because of its vast gas reserves and proximity to Asian
markets hungry for liquefied natural gas.

Page53of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The frenzy has driven up the cost of materials and labor, swelling budgets and timelines for gas
plants built on land. Prelude hasn't been squeezed by those pressures, according to Shell.

Even though Shell's untested technology hasn't set sail, Exxon Mobil Corp. has told Australian
regulators it is considering a gas-harvesting boat. Mr. Bichsel says Shell officials are discussing
building a second vessel.

"Since we have the size and we can afford it, going for the larger projects makes perfect sense for
our company," he says. "It is not because we are mad and have to be the first."
(See: "In Depth: Big Oil Companies Struggle To Justify High Project Costs --- Chevron, Exxon, Shell
Have Little to Show For the Over $120 Billion Spent in 2013 to Boost Oil and Gas Output" -- WSJA
January 30, 2014)

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

CO
IN

NS

RE

IPC
PUB
AN

rnlp : Royal Dutch Shell PLC
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | iextra : Natural
Gas/Oil Extraction
cnatrd : Natural Reserves/Resources Discovery | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | neqac : Equities
Asset Class News | c24 : Capacity/Facilities | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters
austr : Australia | eurz : Europe | neth : Netherlands | skorea : South Korea | uk : United Kingdom |
apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | benluxz : Benelux Countries | easiaz :
Eastern Asia | eecz : European Union Countries | weurz : Western Europe
AEQI
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document AWSJ000020140129ea1u0000y

Page54of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.