Hay forum ‘shares’ a point

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Early General News
Hay forum ‘shares’ a point

PAULA THOMPSON
827 words
13 March 2014
Stock Journal
FSTOCJ
3
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

IT is important to explore collaborative farming practices to ensure young people have a profitable
and productive future in the fodder industry, according to Freeling farmer and hay producer Tom
Shanahan.

The fifth-generation farmer was a guest speaker at the Australian Fodder Industry Association's Gen
Ag event at Kapunda on Friday.

"When I started out we used to supply dairy farms and chaff mills, and there was a very big demand
for hay," he said.

"We moved on to producing bedding straw, and there is a strong market for that product."

Mr Shanahan said hay fitted in well with his overall farm program, especially as a way to keep on top
of chemical resistance issues in ryegrass.

"I look at ryegrass as a numbers game the more ways we can take it out, the better," he said.

But, with the cost of land at between $9880 and $12,350 a hectare in the highly productive Lower
North region, ensuring profitability can be a challenge.

"If you look around Freeling, and the cost of land, you've got to have it making money," he said.

Mr Shanahan said with major capital outlays such as significant shedding important for success in the
fodder industry, joining together to pool resources could be a way forward for young farmers.

"My suggestion to a lot of people standing back from the industry is that hay can be a great fit on your
farm, especially for ryegrass control, but who wants to spend $1.5 million to set yourself up with all
the latest gear?" he said.

"That's why I think collaborative farming is something the next generation of farmers is going to have
to get their heads around, if they want to ensure their farm's survival going into the future.
"It gives the ability to buy the latest equipment at an affordable rate.

"Capital outlay is what I believe is killing farmers today. We need to get smart for our survival."

Mr Shanahan said the ability to produce a high quality product was crucial.

"If you grow a consistent quality product, you go from being a price taker to a price maker," he said.

"There's an exciting future in the industry but it's the overheads that will kill you."
JT Johnson & Sons director Robbie Johnson was another guest speaker at the event. The company
hosted the event at its Kapunda office, and included a tour of its export hay facility.

Page235of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Robbie and his brother Mark are the fourth generation in the Johnson family.
"We need growers to build our business," he said.

"We believe the market is growing, including the Middle East market, although that is a
price-orientated market."

JT Johnson & Sons sales coordinator Corey Ryan said while Japan remained the major market for
Australian hay, China was looming as a major player.

"In 2014, Australia has been exporting hay to Japan for 25 years," he said.

"It started out with about 2000 tonnes of hay in late 1988.

"The market has matured and our Japanese customers know exactly what they want."

In 2013, there were 616,298t of hay exported from Australia each month. Japan remained the biggest
market, on 385,000t, Korea was stable at 140,000t and China was smaller but growing at 45,000t.

Smaller markets such the United Arab Emirates accounted for 40,000t.
"The exciting market at the moment is China. It has a huge demand for milk and milk-related
products," Mr Ryan said.

For the straw market, Japan was the major buyer, with 155,108t exported from Australia each month.
But Mr Ryan said their market was likely to shrink in future.
"In Japan, cattle numbers are shrinking, year-on-year. There's been a 4 per cent decline in dairy
cattle numbers and the average age of Japanese farmers is 75 years," he said.

Mr Ryan said the Korean free trade agreement signed off recently could see an increase in demand.

"As long as we keep doing a good job, and maintaining strong relationships with our customers, they'll
continue to keep buying from us," he said.

AFIA executive officer Darren Keating said Gen Ag was the association's network of young people
with an interest in the fodder industry.

"In the past, Gen Ag has hosted fodder tours and workshops, and maintains a facebook page
targeted at the next generation of fodder farmers," he said.

"In 2014, AFIA will continue to provide young people with some insight into what the fodder industry is
about through events like the Gen Ag BBQ at Kapunda.

"The fodder industry is a quiet achiever in Australian agriculture. The sector has seen good growth
over the past few years and we think this is set to continue."

Details: Follow AFIA on twitter at @AusFodder or facebook at Ausfodder.

CO
IN

RE
PUB
AN

ausfia : Australian Fodder Industry Association
i010010502 : Dairy Cattle Farming | i0 : Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | i0100105 : Cattle Farming |
ilsfarm : Livestock Farming
austr : Australia | saustr : South Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FSTOCJ0020140312ea3d00024

Page236of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.