Free access for China after FIRB lifted

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Free access for China after FIRB lifted

Larry Schlesinger and Matthew Cranston
522 words
20 November 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
40
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Chinese investors will get almost unfettered access to Australian commercial real estate under new
Foreign Investment Review Board rules that form part of the China-Australia Free Trade Agreement.
Under ChAFTA, private Chinese investors will be able to buy commercial property up to a value of
$1.078 billion - well above any commercial investment to date - without requiring FIRB approval,
putting them on an even footing with US and New Zealand investors.

The current commercial property screening threshold is just $54 million.
Changes to the commercial property screening threshold were confirmed by a spokesman for the
Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade. They bring commercial property FIRB rules in line with
private business investments screening thresholds under ChAFTA.
Existing arrangements for the screening of foreign investment in residential real estate remain
unchanged.
While FIRB did not block any foreign investment proposals in 2012-13 and just 13 real estate proposals
in the previous year, Property Council of Australia chief executive Ken Morrison said the significant
raising of the threshold would encourage more investment "in any case". "It's certainly a good thing."
Mr Morrison said ChAFTA would create a two-way flow of investment despite Chinese government's
restrictions on property ownership.
"It will create opportunities for Australian property developers and property service providers. The
amount of construction under way in China, presents a huge medium-term opportunity," he said.
However, he said, restrictions on Chinese land ownership – typically 40 to 50 year leaseholds for
commercial property and 70 years for residential property – would play on investors's minds, while
issues of transparency and the certainty of law still made real estate investment in China difficult. But,
he said, the framework of the ChAFTA would create "more evenhanded access for Australian
investors". "More investors will have a second look at China and investigate opportunities," he said.

Michael French, partner at Norton Rose Fulbright Australia, said lifting the FIRB screening threshold for
commercial property investment was a positive step forward. However, he said, changes to enable
the government to screen investment proposals in agricultural land valued from $15 million and
agribusiness from $53 million could be seen as a negative step by Chinese private investors.
Minter Ellison corporate lawyer Matthew Hibbins, who has worked in Hong Kong on cross-border
deals, said: "In the last 18 months we have seen a trend of increasing investment in Australia from the
Chinese private sector across a range of assets classes.
"The liberalisation of Australia's foreign investment rules for the Chinese private sector will unlock
significant investor interest from this sector in commercial real estate and Australian business
generally," he said.

Page197of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Baker & McKenzie's head of China Group in Australia John Mollard, who spent seven years in China,
welcomed the new changes. He said they levelled the playing field with other recently signed FTAs.
Key points Chinese investors will be able to buy property up to $1.078b, equal to US or NZ. Ken
Morrison of the Property Council says ChAFTA would generate a two-way flow, despite China's
restrictions.

IN
RE

PUB
AN

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141119eabk0000z

Page198of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.