From near collapse to award-winning drop

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Smart Money
From near collapse to award-winning drop

Jacquie Hayes
934 words
16 August 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
34
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Jacquie Hayes
There's nothing like a glass of fine wine to help set the mood when you're sitting down to lunch with
someone you don't know.

I was grateful for this the other day as I met with Rathbone Wine Group chief executive Darren
Rathbone at The Graham in Port Melbourne.

Buoyant and charming, Rathbone hosted – ordering a top example of his own wines, a 2010 Mount Langi
Ghiran shiraz, which was more than up to the task of breaking the ice on a wintery Melbourne day.
Little wonder he was in a good mood. Just nights earlier, another Rathbone wine, the 2011 Xanadu
Stevens Road cabernet sauvignon, had beaten around 9000 labels to take out Wine of the Year honours
in the prestigious annual Wine Companion Awards. It rated 99 out of 100, according to wine critic and
judge James Halliday.
Another 24 wines from the Rathbone group (which also includes the Yarra Valley's Yering Station)
scored 94 points or higher this year.

Rathbone was flying high after previously almost hitting the skids. A tale of survival

It's a story worth sharing because his experience of going from promising growth to ending up on the
block, then not only surviving but thriving provides valuable insights.

It all started in 1996 when Rathbone had just completed a degree in chemical engineering at Melbourne
University. His father Doug, then, as now, chief executive of listed agricultural chemical company
NuFarm, asked him to develop and lead a family wine business after he and brother Graeme had
bought Yering Station. Rathbone spent three years organising the design and development of the winery,
restaurant, and vineyard before leaving for California's UC Davis in 1999 to do his masters degree in
food science and oenology (the study of wine and wine-making).

When he returned three years later, Yering Station had developed into a popular tourist destination and
become a strong wine brand under then-winemaker Tom Carson.
The Rathbones embarked on an expansion plan to grow through acquisition of complementary brands.

They picked up another three wineries over the next three years, two of them (Mount Langi Ghiran in the
Grampians and Parker Coonawarra Estate) businesses of exceptional reputation. The third was Xanadu
in the Margaret River, a property with plenty of baggage (it was run by a publicly listed company) but
with all sorts of promise. In 2006, the group also bought a Port Melbourne industrial property to house
its head office and a new food storage and distribution facility, 14 Degrees Logistics. "Everything was
looking strong and successful . . . and we planned to continue growing and developing," Rathbone says.
"Tasmania, the Barossa, McLaren Vale (and other wineries) were to be included in growth over the next

Page9of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.20 or 30 years." This growth had been facilitated via debt financing from ANZ Bank on the back of the
family's NuFarm wealth. But after the global financial crisis, ANZ's view of the security of that wealth
changed markedly, especially when the NuFarm share price tanked. The strengthening Australian dollar
didn't help, making imported wine cheaper for locals and exports a much less compelling offer
elsewhere. Finally, in 2010, ANZ gave Rathbone the order to sell – everything. Credit Suisse ran a quiet,
off-market campaign through its global network for two years. But when nothing shifted, Adelaide
wine-industry broker Gaetjens Langley gave it a more public six-month shot at selling the portfolio, again
to no effect.
"We got a lot of tyre kickers coming from China, North America, Europe and Argentina," Rathbone says,
"and a lot of other wineries that thought they might be able to pick up something for a steal. But we
needed to get reasonable value to pay the debt."
Parker Coonawarra Estate sold in 2012, but the $7 million proceeds weren't enough to mollify
ANZ.Righting the ship
Rathbone pulled the sale of the family's winery assets and settled with the bank via a $31.8 million block
trade in NuFarm and a sale-and-leaseback deal of the Port Melbourne site. "Managing that process took
so much energy away from running the business, especially [once the winery sales went public], after
which no one would do a long-term deal with us any more," he says. That's all changed now and the
group plans to continue growing, though only by building the existing brands. Offshore expansion will be
a priority given most of the 2 million bottles the three wineries produce each year are sold in Australia.
Rathbone's already gained a strong foothold in China since setting up joint venture distribution business,
the Wine Republic, in Hong Kong in 2007. And Mount Langi Ghiran's inclusion on the Starwood Hotel
Group's Wines of the World program has earned it valuable shelf space in Bangkok, Singapore, Kuala
Lumpur and Jakarta. Rathbone's applying "precision viticulture" to the properties, using GPS technology
and aerial site mapping to identify and expand on vineyard variables.
These have been scary years but Rathbone's dedicated to keeping the group on stable ground. "We
need to listen to our customers and understand what they're looking for when they make their purchasing
decisions."

Speaking of purchasing, in the days after our lunch, I tried to pick up some of that award-winning Stevens
Road cab sav, without success. I wasn't quick enough, I suppose.
That's another thing you have to be in the wine business, nimble.

Rathbone's got that one down pat.

NS

RE

c182 : Asset Transactions | gpersf : Personal Finance | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate
Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania

PUB Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
AN

Document AFNR000020140815ea8g0004i

Page10of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.