Shape up or ship out: ASF on call over Broadwater

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

PrimeSpace
Shape up or ship out: ASF on call over Broadwater

ROSEANNE BARRETT, SARAH DANCKERT, INFRASTRUCTURE
488 words
21 August 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
26
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Government is yet to be convinced about the project’s viability
The Chinese-backed developer ASF Consortium has been warned that the Queensland government
is losing patience with its “divisive” proposal to build a casino and cruise ship terminal at the
Broadwater on the Gold Coast.

ASF has not responded to a request for more information, issued in February, about its $7.5 billion
proposal for a multi-pier terminal development in the environmentally sensitive area.
A further request for detailed information will be issued to the consortium, which includes ASF, Hong
Kong-listed China Communications Construction Company and one of its subsidiaries, Guangzhou
Dredging, as well as the state-owned China State Construction Engineering Corporation Limited.
Project manager Allan Fife, from Fife Capital, told The Australian the company was working on
“meeting quite an extensive shopping list of requirements associated with the various processes”.

“Clearly, it is a pretty demanding exercise … Rather than just speaking reactively about specific
issues that may be raised we would much rather be providing comprehensive updates on the project.”
The company would release an update this week.

Senior government representatives have raised serious doubts about the viability of any proposal for
a terminal at The Spit.

Member for Southport and Assistant Minister for Planning Reform Rob Molhoek told The Australian
he was yet to be convinced the project could be achieved economically.
“I’m waiting for someone to produce a report saying it can be done, we can get the boats in and out,
to make it viable and that we can do it in a cost that it is achievable,” he said.

Last week, Deputy Premier Jeff Seeney said the government was concerned. “I think it is important
that we make a decision about the proposal because it has been divisive in the community and I think
it’s time we found a solution,” he said.

ASF’s wrangling with the state government comes as Aquis awaits today’s ruling by the Australian
Competition & Consumer Commission about whether it can acquire Reef Casino in Cairns for $217
million while also pushing ahead with plans for a $8.15bn casino-resort in the region.
The ruling will come in the same week that the company run by Hong Kong billionaire Tony Fung
appears to have netted significant backing in China for its project, with representatives from the
$70bn Poly Group visiting Cairns with the Fung family this week. Flanking Poly Group were several
investment bankers including representatives from Credit Suisse and Deutsche Bank, sources said.

Page90of343©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mr Fung is still expected to charge on with his integrated resort plans at Yorkeys Knob if the ACCC
blocks his company’s purchase of Reef Casino Trust.It is understood Mr Fung was in Brisbane
yesterday for talks with state government representatives charged with issuing a new casino licence.

CO

IN
NS
RE
PUB
AN

csce : China State Construction Engineering Corporation Ltd | csttce : China State Construction
Engineering Corporation
icre : Real Estate/Construction
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140820ea8l0004s

Page91of343©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.