Rubble in paradise: mansion faces wrecking ball

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Rubble in paradise: mansion faces wrecking ball

»LUCY MACKEN
679 words
25 May 2014
Sun Herald
SHD
First
17
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

As the pile of rubble accumulates on the site of the former Point Piper mansion Craig-y-Mor, the
nearby waterfront trophy Altona could become Sydney’s next high-end demolition job.

A heritage assessment report compiled for Woollahra Council and set to be submitted to the Urban
Planning Committee on Monday recommends against any heritage order for the Victorian Italianate
residence, which sold last March for $52 million to a buyer from China.

If Altona was knocked down, it would exceed Sydney’s most expensive knock down and rebuild job
under way on the non-waterfront Craig-y-Mor mansion, which sold for $32.4 million in 2008 to Zeng
Wei, the son of China’s former vice-president Zeng Qinghong, and his wife Jiang Mei.

Rather than keep the imposing residence with its 1960s redesign by architect Leslie Wilkinson,
Craig-y-Mor is being flattened to make way for a contemporary mansion designed by architect
Stephen Gergely.

Before Craig-y-Mor was demolished it was known for its distinctive bay windows and columns and for
being the former home of the consul-general of Japan, late stockbroker Rene Rivkin and the
stevedoring company owner Chris Corrigan.

Plans for the new Craig-y-Mor residence were rejected by Woollahra Council but were later approved
by the Land and Environment Court.

The report into the heritage significance of nearby Altona says the original two-storey residence has
been extended to three times its footprint, and the only remnants are a parapet, two chimneys and a
tower. Woollahra Council is expected to make a decision on June 10.
Sydney is no stranger to the demolition of trophy residences. The waterfront estate Paradis sur Mer
was a high-profile knock down and rebuild in 1990, and not only because it was sold for a then record
high $19.2 million in the late 1980s by Sir Frank and Lady Susan Renouf.

Built in 1937 for the Radford family, it was knocked down to make way for two houses at the end of the
peninsula, one called Paradis sur Mer II, which is owned by Orli Wargon, wife of businessman David
Gonski, and the second home called Radford. A third smaller residence has been built on the former
slipway on the site, which is for sale for about $15 million. In Watsons Bay, commodities trader
Vaughan Blank spent $28.1 million in 2008 to buy the 1928-built Spanish villa, Villa Porto Rosa.
Within months of that purchase, the home had been levelled and work was under way on Mr Blank’s
beachfront mansion.
It all comes back to location, according Ken Jacobs, of Christie’s International, who sold the property
to Mr Blank.

Page57of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.‘‘The best positions are always the first to go and so it is in Sydney where you have these
extraordinary vantage points, and buyers who want the position but not necessarily the house that
stands on it,’’ Mr Jacobs said.

‘‘The reality is that some of these properties, although not all, are highly under-capitalised.’’
In Elizabeth Bay, the waterfront mansion Cardigan was sold by the late high-profile divorce lawyer
Cedric Symonds for $8.5 million in 1996 to the East Asia Property Group, after it had already been
approved for demolition to make way for seven apartments.

Often, Sydney’s grand old mansions survive the wrecking ball to be converted into apartments. Two of
the best examples are the former family home of Sir Samuel Hordern, Babworth House, in Darling
Point, and Kilmory, in Point Piper. Both estates were converted into strata-title offerings in the late
1990s and the early 2000s.

CRAIG-Y-MOR

Point Piper
Sale price$32.4 million

Bought from Ben Tilley

Bought by Zeng Wei in 2008

Demolished Ongoing

PARADISSURMER

Point Piper
Sale price$13 million

Bought from Geza Seidl

Bought by Gerald and

Monica Symonds

Demolished 1990

VILLAPORTOROSA

CampCove
Sale price $28.1 million

Bought from The Grace

retail family

Bought by Vaughan Blank

Demolished 2008

NS

RE

PUB
AN

gplan : Urban Planning/Development | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International
Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SHD0000020140525ea5p0005v

Page58of250©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.