Property firms look abroad to escape curbs

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

BUSINESS
Property firms look abroad to escape curbs

MINDY TAN
761 words
4 February 2014
MyPaper
MYPAPR
FIRST
A9
English
(c) 2014 Singapore Press Holdings Limited. All Rights Reserved

BY MINDY TAN

THE BUSINESS TIMES

FIRMS have ramped up their geographical diversification efforts in recent months in a bid to escape
Singapore’s prohibitive property cooling measures.

In the opening weeks of last month alone, Aspial Corporation unveiled two acquisitions in Australia,
Keppel Land agreed to purchase land in Indonesia, and CapitaLand picked up yet another plot in
China.

Australia, Britain and the United States have been firms’ favourite hot spots. Several companies,
including Hiap Hoe, AIMS AMP Capital Industrial Reit, Aspial, and Suntec Reit, picked Australia for
their first overseas acquisitions.
Hiap Hoe, for instance, bought a 40,489 sq ft site in Melbourne, which it intends to develop into a
425-unit project, and then went on quickly to snap up a commercial building at 380 Lonsdale Street
and a retail and office property at 206 Bourke Street. The three acquisitions cost the company about
A$177.6 million (S$198.4 million).
Aspial bought a freehold commercial building in Melbourne for A$41.5 million, followed soon by a
separate commercial building, also in Melbourne, for A$42.3 million. It intends to redevelop the latter
site into what will be the tallest building in the city, subject to aviation clearance.
Among real-estate investment trusts (Reits), AMP Capital picked up a 49 per cent stake in Optus
Centre, a business park in Sydney, for A$184.4 million, while Suntec Reit bought 177-199 Pacific
Highway, a freehold land and property with a 31-storey Grade A commercial tower that is targeted
for completion in early 2016. These were the first overseas acquisitions for both Reits.

According to data released by DTZ, close to US$3.5 billion (S$4.5 billion) was invested overseas by
Singapore-based investors in the first nine months of last year.

Notably, this figure does not take into account GIC’s 50 per cent stake in London’s Broadgate
business district, a retail and commercial estate of 17 office buildings.
While the consideration for GIC’s purchase was not disclosed, reports placed the price tag at around
£1.7 billion (S$3.6 billion) – believed to be a record for a central London property.

City Developments Limited (CDL) and Oxley Holdings are among the firms that made forays into the
London market in the last 12 months – CDL via a freehold plot near Harrods in Knightsbridge, which it
intends to redevelop, and Oxley Holdings via a mixed-development site at London’s Royal Wharf.

Page236of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Other firms also entered the fray. Local construction group Lum Chang added a London hotel near
the tourist attractions of Hyde Park and Kensington Gardens to its growing list of London properties
last year.
Property in the US also received its fair share of interest. SingHaiyi group – previously known as
SingXpress Land – snapped up two distressed commercial projects in the US in the last few months,
after Mr Neil Bush, the brother of former US president George W. Bush, was brought on board as
non-executive chairman of SingHaiyi.

Separately, OUE picked up California’s tallest building – the US Bank Tower in Los Angeles – for
US$367.5 million, while earlier this year GIC sealed a deal to buy office space in New York’s Time
Warner Centre with two partners, the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority and US real-estate firm
Related Companies, for US$1.3 billion.

While many local firms have been acquiring plots overseas, one of the most active is local developer
Oxley Holdings, which now has ventures in Malaysia, Cambodia and China.
Following its first move abroad in May last year, in which it bought a firm with rights to a mixed-use
site in Kuala Lumpur, Oxley Holdings has assembled an impressive portfolio of plots through a
combination of joint ventures, development right agreements, and acquisitions.
Last month, the group said it signed a framework agreement with Sepang Goldcoast and Sepang
Bay to develop land. The latter two hold interests in two parcels of 99-year-leasehold land with an
aggregate area of about 47.3ha in Sepang.

The joint-venture agreements entitle Oxley Treasure to 85 per cent of the gross development value of
the developments on the land.

myp@sph.com.sg
SHOPPING SPREE: After buying a 40,489 sq ft site in Melbourne, Hiap Hoe went on to snap up a
commercial building at 380 Lonsdale Street and a retail and office property at 206 Bourke Street
(above). The acquisitions cost the company close to $200 million.
dbsl : CapitaLand Limited | leehwa : Aspial Corporation Limited | sutrei : Suntec Real Estate
Investment Trust
i815020602 : Real Estate Investment Trusts | i8500021 : Office Real Estate | i81502 :
Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150206 : Investment Trusts/Funds | i85 : Real Estate Transactions
| icireal : Commercial/Industrial Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ifinal : Financial
Services | iinv : Investing/Securities | ireest : Real Estate | i491 : Jewelry/Silverware | icnp : Consumer
Goods
usa : United States | austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia
Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North America
Singapore Press Holdings Limited
Document MYPAPR0020140205ea240000h

ART

CO

IN

RE

PUB
AN

Page237of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.