letters continued

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

letters continued

1,203 words
26 June 2014
The Chronicle (Toowoomba)
APNCHR
Main
29
English
Copyright 2014 APN Newspapers Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved

letters continued
Mining

Air quality
A SECOND independent government monitor was placed in Jondaryan in direct line to the coal facility
in February. This monitor does not have trees or Toowoomba City Dump as obstructions.

This monitor records ambient air suspended particles and small particulates PM 10 and PM 2.5.

New Hope states the poor air quality for several days this month is from other sources:-

Smoke from indoor fires, cars, trucks, farming activities, dirt roads, and Jondaryan waste facility.
These questions could be answered by the mining company or the State and Federal governments:

Why is it that the highest readings for ambient air and PM10 are from 8pm and 6am while the dump is
closed and the traffic on the Warrego Hwy is minimal? Smoke was not a cause- it was a hot month of
May. Farming activities should be checked before farmers in the area are blamed.
Why are readings higher when winds blow directly from the east over the coal loading facility, or at
night when the air is still and hangs over Jondaryan?
I suggest that Tony Abbott, Campbell Newman and New Hope Coal please cease dreaming (As a
mining company employee once told me when I suggested these problems).

Problem solving for New Acland: Maybe your monitor is faulty or is in the wrong position.

Perhaps have your monitor re- positioned next to the new government monitor for quality control.

Poor health corresponds with these days of very poor air quality. Symptoms include eyes, tongue and
throat burning, headaches and nausea, breathing problems and profuse sweating, weakness and
faintness during even mild exertion. Other residents and I are not dreaming, these are real symptoms.

GLENNIS HAMMOND, Jondaryan

Politics

Out of touch

THE LNP have no idea of how tough everyday Queenslanders are doing it, yet they continue with their
out of touch ideology of governing Queensland.

How is selling our state owned power assets going to be good for the people of Queensland? The
leader of the NSW LNP Mike Baird told the Daily Telegraph “I say look at the facts.

Page189of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“The facts show very clearly that electricity costs in Victoria since privatisation have been lower...They
have been lower you can’t dispute that and yes there would be a big scare campaign about this.”

Mr Baird you, like the Queensland LNP, seem to have no problem pulling the wool over voters eyes all
in the name of a quick cash grab.

Privatisation of the Victorian electricity entity has not reduced the electricity bills of Victorians, in fact
since 1999 power bills have steadily increased, just as they have in Queensland.

Queensland Treasurer Tim Nichols has a plan to sell off 49% of our public owned power assets and
these new private companies will share in the $2.1billion these public owned assets return to the
government each year. Origin Energy who has an interest in the privatised Victorian network recently
announced nearly half a billion dollar profit, and Transgrid announced $349.9million profit. Other
overseas-owned companies also announced big profits because of the share they get from the
privatised electricity network in Victoria.
Knowing all this, the Queensland LNP is still prepared to offer our electricity network for sale so these
overseas businesses can take the profits instead of returning these profits back to the government to
in turn spend on further development in Queensland.
Putting the LNP last on the ballot paper will ensure your public owned power assets, Ergon Energy,
Energex, Powerlink, Stanwell generator and CS Energy generator will remain owned by
Queenslanders generating profits for Queenslanders not overseas owned entities.

MATT WINTERS, Toowoomba

Health

Health boost

IT IS better management through devolved local control that has delivered Queensland patients better
health outcomes - a fact still lost on Labor and its shadow minister.

In the Toowoomba Chronicle Jo-Ann Miller wrote to criticise the improved performance of the State
health system and to advocate a return to the failed Labor policies of big-spending bureaucratic
incompetence.
Readers who hoped Labor had learned its lesson after its infamous payroll debacle ($1.25 billion lost)
or its Tahitian Prince fiasco ($16 million lost) would have been disappointed to read her words.

More than two years after it lost office, Labor sticks to its same discredited health policies – centralised
control and unconstrained over-expenditure.

Any adult Queenslander with a household to run knows it is not just the quantity of money you spend
that counts, but the quality of your decision-making. Labor still thinks otherwise.

The Newman Government has a simple three-part plan for better health care: 1. patients first; 2. local
control and 3. better performance.

These policies have improved our hospital emergency departments, reduced waiting times for urgent
and semi-urgent surgery, practically eliminated long-waits for public dental work and cut ambulance
response times (among others).

Under Labor, 7000 people were waiting two years or more for dental treatment on the general care
waiting list for the Darling Downs. Today, that list has shrunk to zero.

At the change of Government, 65 per cent of patients at hospital emergency departments on the
Downs were seen within 4 hours. By March this year, the number seen in four hours had risen to 83pc.

Given the chance, against all evidence and to spite common-sense, Labor would readily scrap these
achievements to return centralised control of Queensland Health to bureaucrats in Brisbane.

LAWRENCE SPRINGBORG,

Minister for Health

Employment

Free Trade

Page190of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.JOBS! Jobs! Jobs! This sounds like pre-election rhetoric propaganda. At an ever-increasing rate our
industries are being shipped overseas.

Governments have become experts at smudging the real figures to promote their economic prowess.
How can they enforce employment on the young when the jobs don’t exist?

Every day companies are shedding the workers from their payrolls, by the hundreds. Meanwhile Tony
Abbott is strutting the global scene giving glowing reports on Communist China.
Gough Whitlam stated that Australia did not need to grow its own food, we could import it. As our dairy
farmers are having weekly clearing sales and veggie and fruit growers leave produce to rot in the
fields, due to this Free Trade, which is destroying our country.

Abbott and his cohorts are committed to Free Trade, as were their predecessors. Remember the
Multilateral Agreement on Investment, M.A.I., GATT, and other unconstitutional agreements signed by
Australia. Abbott and Co. should be committed for trial, along with his predecessors, for sedition.

Both major political parties are party to this Socialist agenda. They only oppose these policies in
opposition.

As the borrower is servant to the lender, so this nation will be subservient to our food supplier. We’ll
leave the gate open for economic sanctions.

E VAUGHAN, Carmila

Politics

Independent

IT WAS interesting to re-read “The Chronicle” item “New MP vows to work with Beattie” (March 20,
2001, Page 3) wherein the MP who was the subject of the report, Ray Hopper, is quoted towards the
end of this report as stating “I was elected as an independent and that is how I will stay”.

GERALD PATCH, Toowoomba

NS
RE
IPD
PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Arts - Culture - Entertainment
APN Newspapers Pty Ltd
Document APNCHR0020140625ea6q000e5

Page191of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.