OZ Minerals would sell Sandfire stake for new project

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
OZ Minerals would sell Sandfire stake for new project

Amanda Saunders
786 words
16 April 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
15
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

OZ Minerals chief Terry Burgess is stepping up his hunt for a copper growth project and is prepared
to use the miner's 19 per cent stake in Sandfire Resources to help fund a deal.
For the right asset, Mr Burgess said Oz Minerals would put $800 million to $1 billion on the table.

He said the Sandfire stake was a balance sheet item that he could use to help fund an acquisition if
needed.
"That could balance quite nicely," he said. "We are not there to make investments in a company so
ultimately we need to make a decision on our holding."

The outgoing chief revealed on Tuesday that Oz Minerals is mulling a full exit of its key growth
project, Carrapateena in South Australia. A dozen global copper producer are combing the asset's
books in the data room, he said.

Carrapateena is too big for Oz Minerals to develop alone, so it has to exit or introduce a joint venture
partner.
The proceeds from an exit could be used for an asset purchase, which Mr Burgess is hopeful he can
secure before stepping down later in 2014.
Mr Burgess had previously indicated he was looking to sell a controlling stake in Carrapateena, but
on Tuesday said all options were on the table.

The deposit is one of the largest by size, and most prospective by grade, of all the undeveloped
copper deposits in Australia.

He said the group was "not wedded" to remaining in Carrapateena and remains mindful of securing
value for shareholders.
Parties with the "wherewithal" to purchase the asset were being treated to presentations and site
visits.

The news comes as Oz Minerals eclipsed analysts' expectations for March quarter production on
Tuesday at its flagship Prominent Hill mine, positioning the miner to possibly exceed full year copper
guidance.
Oz Minerals bought the Carrapateena asset in 2011 for $US250 million, and has since invested a
further $150 million.

"That is just what we've spent – the value of the asset needs to be taken into account," he said. "And
we've taken all the risk to date."

Page100of259©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.As for the appeal of the asset, Mr Burgess said it was "very hard to find quality resources in countries
where the sovereign risk is low" and pointed to a supportive South Australian government.

"It's not up in the Andes, you've got water, electricity, and an environment with good infrastructure,
two hours from Port Augusta," he said.
He said prospective buyers of the project were frustrated that many of the best copper assets were
in the most difficult countries in the world to operate in, but Carrapateena was an exception to that.
An MMG-led consortium's $6.23 billion purchase of the Las Bambas copper project from Glencore
this week had added huge momentum to the M&A market in the commodity.
"It is a message from the heart of China that copper is the commodity of the future," he said .

Mr Burgess is on the hunt for an operating asset size of 50,000 tonnes to 100,000 tonnes. He is
looking for assets in Chile, Peru, Canada and Zambia. But he has ruled out the Democratic Republic
of the Congo, Mongolia and Kazakhstan.
As for Sandfire's flagship DeGrussa copper-gold project in Western Australia , Mr Burgess said "at
the moment it looks fully priced".

He said Oz Minerals had bought into Sandfire in 2010 because of their DeGrussa discovery and the
punt that they would have more exploration success. "We were hoping – as they probably were – that
they would find more, and they haven't. For us that is a disappointment," he said.

Before he steps down, Mr Burgess is aiming to return the group's flagship Prominent Hill mine to
nameplate copper production of 100,000 tonnes a year.

In its March quarter report on Tuesday, the Melbourne-based miner posted production of 18,182
tonnes of copper and 33,792 ounces of gold in the March quarter at Prominent Hill.
It was well ahead of Deutsche Bank's prediction of 15,700 tonnes of copper and 22 per cent higher
than JPMorgan's forecast 15,000 tonnes. Gold production broadly was broadly line with
expectations.

Deutsche analyst Brett Hucker wrote that the group "could be on track to meet or exceed the top end
of the [copper] production guidance range of 75,000 to 80,000 tonnes".
For gold, full-year guidance is unchanged, at between 130,000 ounces and 140,000 ounces. READ
NEXT: OZ Minerals quarterly results OZ Minerals managing director Burgess resigns Evolution
denies merger talks with OZ Minerals

golpla : OZ Minerals Limited | sanfir : Sandfire Resources Ltd
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | imet : Mining/Quarrying | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources
c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
| reqrmm : Suggested Reading Metals/Mining | cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types |
nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | redit : Selection of Top
Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140415ea4g0002b

CO
IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page101of259©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.