Media Release: MOGAS_OReilly

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Media Release: MOGAS_OReilly

543 words
25 July 2014
AAP MediaNet Press Releases
AAPMPR
English
© 2014 Australian Associated Press Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved

MEDIAMedia release distributed by AAP Medianet.

Modest Entrepreneur Heads One of SA's Most Successful Companies

With little fuss, but much entrepreneurial zeal, Greg Patten, the man behind a largely unknown family
company he built from scratch is showing how business can thrive in the South Australian economy.

Greg was a nominee and finalist for the Central Region in the 2014 Ernst & Young Entrepreneur of the
Year Awards, announced last night in Adelaide.

Hardly a household name, Greg's quiet style has nevertheless seen his Mogas fuel brand achieve
"major player" status in the highly competitive fuel supply industry, while simultaneously developing
innovative, leading-edge technologies to manage and expand their business operations across a
surprising, diverse field.

While almost the reluctant businessman - Greg started his career in agricultural research and
engineering and went on to obtain post-graduate qualifications in these fields - the successes of his
company are becoming clearly apparent following the EY Awards this year.

Since being established in a $100 investment partnership with wife Carol, 35 years ago, the
privately-owned family company now has diversified commercial interests ranging from international
management consulting and publishing through to petrol retailing and storage, software development
and primary production.
Today the Mogas Group enjoys a substantial and growing share of the wholesale fuel supply market in
SA, with depots throughout the state serving the mining, marine, primary production and earth-moving
industries. Mogas also covers large sections of outback Northern Territory and WA with further
expansion plans into other interstate markets well advanced.
Last year Mogas purchased a fuel company on Kangaroo Island and on 1st August it opens a new
office and warehouse in Mount Gambier.

Independent discount fuel system builds big savings for motorists
Another important business development area for the Mogas Group has been its EasyFuel discounting
system. Running with cutting-edge, in-house developed smart-card technology, EasyFuel operates to
provide motorists with compounding petrol discounts by shopping at a range of completely independent
shops and businesses around the State.

According to Mr Patten, EasyFuel is good for the community and good for open competition.

"Our EasyFuel system is a wonderful way for local, independent businesses and service stations to
compete with the giant supermarket chains," Mr Patten said. "Stores get to reward their loyal customers
and shoppers get better choice and, of course, cheaper petrol."

"Due to recent massive demand for our Easyfuel system from independent merchants and shoppers
alike, we are going national from 1st August. We have also opened up Easyfuel to other independently
branded service stations, to provide shoppers with greater flexibility when redeeming their accumulated
fuel discounts," Mr Patten said.

Page289of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The business potential of the EasyFuel technology is evidenced by the international trademark
approvals that have just been granted in a number of overseas' markets, including the US, all countries
in the EU, Singapore and China.
Company Websites: www.mogasregional.com.auwww.easyfuel.com.au

For further information on this release, contact:
Greg Patten, Mogas Group; 0418 831 997; greg.patten@mogasgroup.com.au

For media enquiries all hours: Mike O'Reilly, 0414 882 505, mike@oreillyconsulting.com (call for hi-res
photos)

*See attached pdf for the full Media Release.

SOURCE: MOGAS_OReilly NNNN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | npress : Press Releases | ncat : Content Types
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Australian Associated Press Pty Ltd
Document AAPMPR0020140724ea7p000p1

Page290of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.