Lure of the land has Asian buyers kicking Meriton’s tyres, says Triguboff

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

CommercialProperty
Lure of the land has Asian buyers kicking Meriton’s tyres, says Triguboff

TURI CONDON, PROPERTY EDITOR
312 words
19 April 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
30
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Large Chinese building companies wanted to buy prolific apartment developer Meriton for its
extensive land bank, according to its billionaire founder Harry Triguboff.

Last month, ahead of Mr Triguboff’s visit to Guangzhou, The Weekend Australian revealed the veteran
developer would hold talks with Chinese groups interested in buying the company he established 50
years ago.

Yesterday, he said discussions had been held with mid-tier listed Chinese builders, though he
declined to name them. “I am of great value to them — I have all the land,” Mr Triguboff said.

Meriton owned sites that could house 11,000 apartments, he told The Weekend Australian in March.
Mr Triguboff said he planned to buy even more land.
“I’m bullish and cautious at the same time,” he said of Sydney’s surging residential market.
The company produces about 2000 apartments a year and earns about $350 million annually in rent
from apartments.
Mr Triguboff said Meriton was worth about $6.25 billion, but he was not keen to sell the company.

“We are considering it, and they are considering it — it’s a long way off.” Mr Triguboff was born in the
Chinese city of Dalian.

Sources said talks had been held over the years with listed Australian developers Stockland and
Mirvac Group to purchase Meriton. Mr Triguboff said his company had become too big for Australian
groups to buy.
His talks with potential Chinese buyers come as the parliamentary inquiry into foreign investment in
residential real estate begins taking submissions.The inquiry, headed by Liberal MP Kelly O’Dwyer,
will investigate whether foreign investment is directly increasing the supply of new housing and
bringing benefits to the local building industry and its suppliers; and how Australia’s foreign investment
framework compares with international experience.

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140418ea4j00003

Page176of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.