Things fall into place for Adani

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Things fall into place for Adani

Matthew Stevens
1,250 words
19 November 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
34
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

The Hindi word for duck is batakh, and it seems they have finally started lining up for Jeyakumar
Janakaraj, the energetic bloke running Adani Enterprises' $7.2 billion adventure in Queensland coal.

Adani is one of those classic family-controlled Indian conglomerates. It accounts are opaque, it is
controlled and run by a billionaire and it appears to have its corporate fingers in every critical pie of the
Indian economy.

Adani, for its sins, also has plans to build Australia's biggest coalmine in Queensland's Galilee Basin. It
would then haul that stored energy 500 kilometres on a new rail network to the Abbot Point export
terminal that it already owns. To make that work it is proposing, infamously, a port expansion to cater
for the 60 million tonnes that will be shipped to expanding regional coal markets, including India.
Even in the best of times, few in mainstream coal have given a whole lot of credence to Adani's
Carmichael dreaming. So, given these are not the best of coal times, Janakarj's week of positives has
come as a bit of a surprise. Quite suddenly Adani seems to have leap-frogged its Galilee competition,
the recently tension-heavy GVK-Hancock joint venture and the even more uncertain project promoted
by Clive Palmer. JJ (as he is conveniently known to his Australian audiences) continues to insist Adani
doubters have it all wrong.

First among equals of things we have wrong is the capital cost. It is consistently reported that Adani's
plan will cost more than $16 billion. Not so, says JJ. Adani's man says that figure is a life of project cost
that includes sustaining capital. He puts the initial cost at $7.2 billion. The mine will cost $4 billion and
the rail and port $3.2 billion.
Janakaraj says $1 billion has already been sunk into the mine so the funding gap there is now
$3 billion. And he puts the funding gap of the rail and port projects at $1.2 billion, given progress
confirmed on Monday.All on track for success

As it turns out, the rail component of this puzzle is owned directly by the Adani family. And on Monday
that project earned itself a $1 billion line of credit from the Bank of India and the offer of an equity
injection from the Queensland government.

The idea that the state might directly support the project at all, let alone the privately owned component
of it, has proved just that little bit controversial.
Importantly though, any state investment would stay in the project and the offer of equity participation is
open to the other Galilee proponents. Importantly too, to earn state funding the proponents would have
to surrender a call on the state royalty holiday promised by government's past. Posco too has taken
equity in the rail project and it is one of several Korean investors looking to take a place in Adani's
sell-down of Abbot Point. The final pieces of the Adani funding package is being assembled by lead
managers Standard Chartered and Commonwealth Bank. An information memorandum is nearing

Page236of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.readiness and it will divide the project into two distinct funding pieces (the mine on one hand, the rail
and port on the other) .
The Janakaraj proposition is that his funding task now "not an impossible task" despite the current coal
market circumstance and the weight of community opposition collected by the anti-coal lobby.

Just for the record on that front, Adani has set about mitigating fears that the Abbot Point expansion
poses a risk to the Great Barrier Reef.

Yes, very limited dredging is necessary to expand the shipping channel. But no, the dredged material
will not be dumped at sea as once planned and approved. The waste will now be stored on the site of
an abandoned BHP terminal expansion.
The dumping story is done with. But the anti-coal message lingers longer. To appreciate Adani's
position on that you only have to listen to Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Modi brought a whole
lot of Bollywood to our G20 festival. And he might well be the agent of change India has been looking
for.

One of Modi's seemingly modest promises is to give 24/7 access to electricity for all of India's village
communities by 2022. But like much else in India, words do not adequately capture the complexity at
hand.

India's power industry will have to double capacity by 2025 to meet past growth expectations and a
Modi promise that will add 300 million customers to the network.
The numbers reveal the unreality of anti-coal's contempt for the idea that coal can be a poverty buster.
Access to electricity, most of it generated from coal, is a right taken for granted by our first world
carbonistas. But it is one they would deny the emerging world. In a recent report, our official
government forecaster, the Bureau of Resource and Energy Economics, described how coal would
fuel Modi's ambition.
"Coal-fired generation is a major component of India's plans for new electricity generating capacity
being developed under the 12th five-year plan (2012-17)," it reported.
"India has more than 130 gigawatts of new coal-fired capacity under construction or approved. There
are a further 25GW of nuclear and 23GW of hydro under development. Accordingly, the majority of
India's increased electricity consumption is likely to be met using coal."

The other fact identified by BREE and reinforced by Adani's investment intentions, is that a lot of this
coal will be imported because India's domestic industry, hamstrung by state regulators, has not been
able to engineer the supply side response once planned.
Now, many out there might be wish it were otherwise, but these are the facts. Coal is as much a part of
India's platform for modernisation as it is China's and Modi has invited Australia to help fuel his nation's
transition.
Two of BHP Billiton's four pillars of growth were acquired with the legendary $US2.3 billion acquisition
of Utah International in 1984.

That deal of legend was forged in a retreat in commodities markets severe enough to unpick General
Electric's interest in mining. With prescient homespun wisdom, then BHP chairman, Sir James McNeill,
batted away criticism of the timing of the purchase observing BHP was "buying straw hats in winter".

Thirty years on, both as regarded as 100-year cornerstones in BHP's super-efficient future. The point is,
commodities markets, from iron ore to oil, are on the sort of sustained retreat that would seem to make
opportunism competitive in BHP's race for capital.
Overnight on Monday Halliburton confirmed a $US36 billion ($41 billion) merger with fellow services
provider Baker Hughes and there is speculation on both sides of the Atlantic that GE will move to bulk
up its oil equipment business.
BHP, of course, is not interested in any part of the downstream oil business. But the same forces have
pushed values to a point where M&A is the talk of the town in the exploration and production end of the
business too.

So a question very likely on a few lips at BHP's capital market days next Monday will be whether the
global one is missing a trick or two right now by resisting growth through acquisition?

Page237of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CO
IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

adexns : Adani Enterprises Ltd | bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC
i16101 : Electric Power Generation | i1 : Energy | i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | ieutil : Electric Utilities |
iutil : Utilities | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | imet : Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
india : India | austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | indsubz : Indian Subcontinent | sasiaz : Southern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141118eabj0002g

Page238of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.