SNL Extra
China's coal import ban evokes mixed reactions among industry, analysts

China 's coal import ban evokes mixed reactions among industry, analysts

SE
HD
BY
WC 590 words
PD
SN
SC
VOL Issue: 82217
LA
CY
LP

Rohan Somwanshi

18 September 2014
SNL Daily Coal Report
DCOAL

English
Copyright 2014. SNL Financial LC

TD

China's ban on imports and domestic sale of certain low-grade coal from Jan. 1, 2015, has sparked
mixed reactions among coal analysts and experts, with some believing that the policy is not strict enough
to suppress the country's coal demand, but could still impact thermal coal shipments from Australia to
China.
The Chinese government has restricted companies from importing coal with more than 16% ash and 1%
sulfur content, as part of its plan to control air pollution.

A research report from Nomura Holdings Inc. said about 50% of thermal coal exports heading from
Australia to China could be affected by the ban. According to Wood Mackenzie, China's thermal coal
imports are expected to rise only 1.7% year-over-year in 2014. Australia supplies roughly 49 million
tonnes of thermal coal to China, according to The Sydney Morning Herald.
From a U.S. perspective, Nomura analysts said China's efforts to reduce coal consumption would be
bearish in the medium term, especially for Peabody Energy Corp.'s Australian thermal coal platform.
According to the research report, Nomura estimates that 3 million tonnes of Peabody's thermal coal from
Australia exceed the 16% maximum ash threshold set by China. Thermal coal sales represent roughly
10% to 15% of Peabody's coal exports into China.
SNL Energy's questions to Peabody on the ban's material impact on the company's coal exports from its
Australian units to China went unanswered.
Peabody's thermal coal mines in Australia include Wilpinjong, Wambo, Wambo North and Burton,
according to data from Nomura.
Australia has been shipping more thermal coal to Europe rather than China, in search of new markets as
shipping costs have become economical. Earlier, Australia had a freight advantage over its competitors in
supplying to Asian markets, but since coal prices came crashing down, the situation has changed.  
Meanwhile, the Minerals Council of Australia said that reports on the ban's impact on Australian coal
exports was "misleading and unnecessarily alarmist," the Australian Associated Press reported. The
council's executive director Greg Evans said the ban would only affect brown or lignite coal, which
Australia does not ship, and low-quality black coal.
"Australia is fortunate to have reserves of high-quality black coal, which will continue to be in strong
demand from established and emerging markets, including China," Evans was quoted as saying by the
Herald.
In related news, Brean Capital said in a research report that China's restrictions on coal "could have at
most a minor impact in keeping more import coal out of China," as few import shipments are transported
600 kilometers or beyond their target users in China. Transporting coal shipments beyond 600 kilometers
results in stringent restrictions from China.
The Chinese government is prohibiting domestic mining, sale, transportation and imports of coal with
ash and sulfur content exceeding 40% and 3%, respectively. For lignite coal, the ash and sulfur content
should not exceed 30% and 1.5%, respectively.

Page22of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."We believe that most imported coal will remain unaffected by the overarching sulfur cap of 1.5% for
lignite and 3.0% for other coals," Brean Capital said, adding that the tightened measures are being
implemented to provide support to struggling domestic Chinese coal producers in the weak pricing
environment.
More than 70% of China's coal producers have reported losses, forcing them to delay wage payments
and struggle to pay off loans, according to an earlier report.

CO pbdy : Peabody Energy Corp
IN
NS

i1 : Energy | i111 : Coal Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
c312 : External Markets | gtrade : Tariffs/Trade Barriers | c31 : Marketing/Markets | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News | gcat :
Political/General News | gdip : International Relations | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

RE

IPD Mining and Supply
PUB SNL Financial LC
AN

Document DCOAL00020140922ea9h00001

Page23of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.