Leinster drag as BHP eyes nickel deal

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Leinster drag as BHP eyes nickel deal

Nick Evans
393 words
17 April 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
Second
89
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

BHP Billiton says the closure of the Perseverance underground nickel mine near Leinster will cut
production at its Nickel West operation by about 10 per cent next financial year, as the company
ramps up its efforts to sell the loss-making division.

Nickel West produced 24,300 tonnes of saleable nickel in the March quarter, down from 25,500t in
the December quarter.

However, production for the nine months to March 31 was 2400t ahead of this time last year and
BHP said it expected no major fall in output for the full financial year.

But the loss of Perseverance, closed in October after BHP decided the mine was no longer safe to
operate, will cost it about 10 per cent of the 2014-15 financial year’s expected output.

With the nickel price on the rise, leading to strong gains in the market value of most WA producers of
the stainless steel ingredient, it is unclear what effect that may have on BHP’s attempts to divest
itself of Nickel West. The operation posted a pre-tax loss of $US151 million for the six months to
December 31.

But despite widespread speculation over the past fortnight BHP was considering a float of its
“unfashionable metals” division — nickel, alumina, aluminium and manganese — sources suggest
the company is keeping alive the option of a Nickel West trade sale.

Industry sources say at least two delegations from potential buyers have toured Nickel West’s
Kalgoorlie smelter as part of due diligence investigations. Unconfirmed reports indicate one group
was made up of Glencore Xstrata executives and the second an unnamed Chinese group.

Glencore is seen as the most likely buyer after comments from chief executive Ivan Glasenberg last
month that an acquisition could make sense.

It is understood Glencore’s Murrin Murrin nickel mine has also been taking trial shipments of
low-grade ore from BHP’s Mt Keith operation.

If BHP floats the broader “unfashionable metals” group, yesterday’s quarterly report helped underline
the promise of the expansion of its Worsley alumina refinery. Worsley set a production record for the
nine months to the end of March, of 2.9 million tonnes.

On the rise 11% The improvement in the London Metal Exchange nickel price, to $US17,660/t, since
the start of this month

CO
IN

bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC
i2114 : Copper Ore/Nickel Ore Mining | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying

Page192of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

RE
PUB
AN

mnonfr : Non-ferrous Metals | c21 : Output/Production | mnickl : Nickel Markets | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | m14 : Commodity Markets | m142 : Metals Markets | mcat :
Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E
Exclusion Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document TWAU000020140416ea4h0001b

Page193of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.