Exclusive
Peabody defends 'all talk, no action' claim on coal as energy poverty solution

Taylor Kuykendall

Peabody defends 'all talk, no action' claim on coal as energy poverty solution

SE
HD
BY
WC 1,683 words
PD
SN
SC
VOL Issue: 83033
LA
CY
LP

17 November 2014
SNL Coal Report
COAL

English
Copyright 2014. SNL Financial LC

TD

As the coal industry works to bolster its case as the fuel to alleviate global energy poverty, environmental
groups are sharply criticizing the campaign and questioning the industry's sincerity.

In a recent policy brief, The Australia Institute, a think tank that advocates for progressive policy
development, specifically focuses on questioning Peabody Energy Corp.'s Advanced Energy for Life
campaign as "all talk, no action." In the brief, the group acknowledges facts similar to what the coal
industry has been presenting in their promotion of coal — that around the world, people are suffering due
to a lack of access to electricity.

"The coal industry is very vocal in promoting energy poverty and pushing coal as a solution to it," the
institute wrote. "The head of major coal company Peabody describes the problem as: Energy poverty is
the world's number one human and environmental crisis. However, what Peabody says and what it does
about energy poverty are very different. Although the company contributes to many charitable causes, it
does not donate money, staff time, expertise or discounted fuel to any project that directly alleviates
energy poverty."
According to the Australia Institute's "All Talk, No Action: The Coal Industry and Energy Poverty," the
solution to energy poverty is not going to come from the coal industry. The authors of the report say it
does not make economic sense to promote coal due to the large up-front costs associated with
coal-related infrastructure.
In a statement emailed to SNL Energy, Vic Svec, Peabody's senior vice president of global investor and
corporate relations, defended the company's Advanced Energy for Life campaign, a collection of
initiatives that puts forth coal as the primary solution to energy poverty. According to Peabody "providing
low-cost electricity that fosters economic prosperity and a better quality of life by mining and marketing
coal is core to Peabody's mission."
"Coal is at the heart of eradicating energy poverty, and it is absurd to suggest otherwise when world
leaders, agencies and analysts all agree that it has been — and will be — a major positive force," Svec
said. "Coal lifted 650 million Chinese citizens from poverty since 1990 at a time when China's GDP
soared 850% and use of coal-fueled power increased eight-fold. In fact, the International Energy Agency
called China's dramatic transformation an 'economic miracle.'"

The Australia Institute instead touts the action of groups such as the United Nations, the World Bank and
other organizations that promote initiatives to alleviate energy poverty. None of those efforts, the institute
claims, involve the use of coal.
"Peabody's only contribution to energy poverty is maintaining a website and social media page which
promotes coal as the solution to the problem," the group states.

Peabody rejects 'no action' claim
Svec countered the assertion that Peabody is not part of the solution. He said all forms of energy,
including coal, are necessary to aid the billions who live in energy poverty, and he noted that Peabody
ships coal to more than 25 countries on six continents to "create affordable energy."

Page214of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Aside from selling coal, however, the company says it engages in a number of initiatives that aim to
alleviate global energy poverty, including engaging with institutions such as the International Energy
Agency, the World Bank, OECD nations and G20 governments to discuss policies that can support those
efforts. The company has also been engaged in finding ways that coal can be burned in light of
increasing demand to produce electricity with lower emissions.
Peabody has taken the lead role in developing the Prairie State Energy Campus, a supercritical coal
plant with $1 billion in emission control technologies that "is among the nation's cleanest coal plants,"
according to the company. In a similar vein, Peabody is a founding member and partner in the FutureGen
Alliance, a U.S. Department of Energy funded effort by a consortium of companies developing a
near-zero emissions coal-fired power plant in Illinois that will capture carbon dioxide emissions.
The company also holds up its role as the only non-Chinese equity partner in the GreenGen power plant
and carbon research center in China. That project gasifies coal and is expected to be one of the largest
near-zero emissions power plants in the world.
Peabody has also donated $18 million to the Coal21 Fund to develop coal technologies, founded the
U.S. Energy Cooperation Program and the Consortium for Clean Coal Utilization and is a member of the
Global Carbon Capture and Storage Institute in Canberra, Australia. At its own global operations, the
company says it reduced its greenhouse gas intensity by 10% in 2013.
"Peabody's credentials on today's advanced coal are extensive, and next-generation carbon capture, use
and storage has been called the low-cost low-carbon solution, with the European Union and others noting
that there is no reasonable way of tackling of carbon goals without carbon capture and storage," Svec
said. "Reasonable people can disagree on the urgency of addressing energy poverty, but it's hard to
question the crisis we face when millions die annually from indoor air pollution. We should use all fuels to
alleviate energy poverty and spend less time debating and more time taking action to create energy
access for those who need it most."
Australia Institute attacks coal industry claims
Initiatives to address global energy poverty are brought up frequently by the industry in its efforts to
alleviate domestic regulations. It is also becoming a focal point in the argument to opening up new export
capacity for coal.
The Australia Institute report aims to dismantle Peabody's claims that coal demand is increasing rapidly,
coal causes economic growth, coal use increases life expectancy, coal use improves quality of life and
that coal is getting cleaner. The report's rebuttal of those claims suggests Peabody has cherry-picked the
most optimistic estimates for coal use, improperly drawn conclusions based on correlation versus
causation, and otherwise inaccurately represented data in their campaign.

The report also says that while it could not find direct financial support of global poverty initiatives on
behalf of Peabody, it does note several noncoal projects being supported by players in the global coal
sector. The report highlights several global energy initiatives by other global mining companies, none of
which centers on coal, but instead utilizes solar street lights, solar panels, platinum-methanol fuel cells,
hydrogen, gas and off-grid diesel.
The report acknowledges that coal will be a significant component of global energy production for some
time, but dismisses claims that coal is vital to economic growth, quality of life or environmental
improvement. Peabody's efforts to promote the idea, the report suggests, is a hindrance to effective policy
solutions to address energy poverty.
"We could not find a single example of a coal company supporting an energy poverty alleviation project
that uses coal-fired power, despite extensive searching and contact with companies and industry
associations," the report states. "This shows that coal industry public relations materials relating to
energy poverty are just that — public relations spin. The claims that coal is vital to economic growth,
quality of life and environmental improvement are not supported by data or analysis, but are designed to
influence public opinion and government policy."
The ideas that Peabody has touted in its campaign have been gaining traction among coal supporters. A
bulk of the research that Peabody has touted in support can be found in an industry-commissioned report
released Jan. 22 by Roger Bezdek titled "The Social Costs of Carbon? No, the Social Benefits of Carbon."
The report, and subsequent references to the report and similar arguments of coal as a solution to energy
poverty has been cast by environmentalists as flawed and a "last gasp" of the struggling industry.
Alex Epstein, author of the "The Moral Case for Fossil Fuels," touts coal and other carbon-heavy fuel
sources as "ethical and progressive," but added that campaigns such as Advanced Energy for Life

Page215of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.struggle because the audience perception of fossil fuels as an addiction shuts down the conversation.
Without addressing a host of other issues first, Epstein told SNL Energy, people will assume to
themselves the coal industry is "just taking advantage of energy poverty to skirt by all of your other
unethical and unsustainable behavior."
Nancy Gravatt, senior vice president of communications for the National Mining Association, called the
Australian Institute report "flimsy and poorly documented" and suggested the report fails its own pledge to
"foster informed debate." She pointed out the International Energy Agency's support and praise of coal as
a "backbone of electricity generation."
"Without electricity, the energy poor are deprived of fundamental advantages of civilization," Gravatt told
SNL Energy. "Consider the World Health Organization estimates that 2.6 billion people who lack reliable
electricity are forced to rely on crop and animal waste and wood for cooking and heating. Private studies
have estimated that as many as 290 million children currently attend primary schools without electricity.
In sub-Saharan Africa, almost a third of health facilities lack electricity, affecting more than 250 million
people."

A report from Robert Bryce, a senior fellow with the conservative Manhattan Institute think tank, includes
an analysis of data on electrification rates around the developing world that conclude that between 1990
and 2010, about 832 million people gained access to electricity from coal-fired sources. Bryce's report,
"Not Beyond Coal: How the Global Thirst for Low-Cost Electricity Continues Driving Coal Demand," says
that for every one person gaining electricity access in the period from renewable sources, four gained
access to electricity from hydroelectricity, six gained access to due to natural gas and 13 gained access
from coal.
"Today, the love-hate relationship with coal continues," Bryce wrote. "We love the electricity it produces,
but abhor the pollution, ash, mining deaths and many other problems it creates. … Despite these myriad
problems, countries continue to produce electricity from coal because it is the cheapest fuel available."

CO pbdy : Peabody Energy Corp | taiact : The Australia Institute
IN

i16101 : Electric Power Generation | i1 : Energy | i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | ieutil : Electric Utilities | iutil
: Utilities | i111 : Coal Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
gpov : Poverty | gcat : Political/General News | gcom : Society/Community | gsoc : Social Issues
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

NS
RE
IPD Electric Generation
PUB SNL Financial LC
AN

Document COAL000020141120eabh0001s

Page216of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.