Australian regulator moves against failed fund house LM

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Australian regulator moves against failed fund house LM

Benjamin RobertsonBenjamin.robertson@scmp.com
571 words
20 November 2014
scmp.com
SCMCOM
English
(c) 2014 scmp.com. All rights reserved.

Australia’s securities regulator on Thursday announced it is taking legal action seeking fines and
disbarment orders against directors of an A$800m (HK$5.3 billion) property fund house whose
collapse in March last year spelt financial ruin for thousands of Australian and expatriate investors
around the world, including Hong Kong.
Directors of Gold Coast-based LM Investment Management, including founder Peter Drake, are
accused of “failing to act with the proper degree of care and diligence” regarding transactions in the
A$400m Managed Performance fund, wrote the Australian Securities and Investment Commission
(ASIC) in a press release.

According to the announcement, ASIC is commencing civil penalty proceedings in the Federal Court of
Australia against Drake and fellow LM directors Francene Mulder, Eghard van der Hoven, Simon
Tickner, and Lisa Darcy, in relation to loans made by the fund to a Drake-controlled development
called Maddison Estate.

“These allegations are flimsy at best and in some instances, totally misleading and incorrect,” and LM
directors “will vigorously defend these allegations”, Drake said in response to the ASIC announcement.

The fund was LM’s flagship product and was heavily marketed overseas as a low-risk, stable-return
vehicle ideal for people planning a retirement. Investors interviewed for a Post Magazine investigation
earlier into LM said they were neither told the fund was unlicensed nor that redemption request delays
began as early as 2009. The fund is now valued at 5 Australian cents on the dollar by administrators.
These allegations are flimsy at best and in some instances, totally misleading and incorrect Peter
Drake, founder, LM Investment Management

Between 2008 and 2012, Maddison’s loan limit was increased from A$40m to A$280m and loans from
the fund were approved by LM directors “in the absence of independent valuations or feasibility
studies”, according to ASIC. The site at Maddison in Queensland remains undeveloped.

Drake rebutted allegations LM was a fraud in the earlier interview. He blamed the fund’s failure on
foreign exchange hedging costs. He also slammed administrators for selling fund assets at fire-sale
prices, thus diminishing its value.

Howard Clark-Burton, senior executive at Financial Partners, one of the biggest sellers of LM funds in
Hong Kong, resigned and left the firm days after the Post story was published.

He and his co-director, Peter Kende, were quoted saying, “Once we became aware of issues at the
Managed Performance Fund, Financial Partners ceased all new offerings, and programmed all existing
clients to redeem their holdings at their next maturity date.”

This was refuted by investors who said they only learnt the fund was in trouble after it went into
administration.

The fund paid high up front indemnified commissions, equivalent to three per cent of the sum invested
for every year an investor locked up their money. Originally structured as a one-year investment term,

Page119of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.by late 2012 the fund was offering a five-year fixed-return product that paid 15 per cent commission to
advisers.
Hong Kong investors have filed complaints against their financial advisers with the Securities and
Futures Commission, the Confederation of Insurance Brokers, and the Hong Kong Police.

According to ASIC, the maximum fine for a director breaching their duties is A$200,000. The regulator
also wants to disqualify LM directors from managing companies and providing financial services in
Australia.

NS

RE

PUB
AN

crbrea : Regulatory Breach | c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | c12 : Corporate Crime/Legal Action
| ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : C&E
Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | hkong : Hong Kong | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
bric : BRICS Countries | china : China | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries
| dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
South China Morning Post Publishers Limited
Document SCMCOM0020141120eabk0002z

Page120of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.