Hope on a global scale

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Hope on a global scale

495 words
16 April 2014
Capricorn Coast Mirror
APNCCM
Main
9
English
Copyright 2014 APN Newspapers Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved

Beachcomberwith Brian Dorey

Beachcomber

with Brian Dorey

IT HAS been an extraordinary week of events and political contrasts for Australia, for the Pacific
Region, for Queensland and Livingstone Shire, in which hope is emerging with bi-partisan
co-operation, that global powers and governments could grow sustainable economies into the future if
they can work together.
Amid the crossfire of the controversial May budget predictions, the decline of Queensland’s mining
and resources industry and the hold up of GVK Hancock’s huge $6 billion Alpha coalmining project
by a Land Court decision, the Federal Government Trade Mission led by Prime Minister, Tony Abbott,
focused positive world attention on the success of his trade negotiations.
The Free Trade Mission to Japan, Korea and China has received a positive response.
Australian exporters will boost billions of dollars in economic growth through trade deals with Japan
and South Korea, as these nations lower the import tariff on imported Australian beef, dairy, fresh
fruit, vegetables and sugar.

In exchange, Australians will get cheaper imported Japanese and South Korean vehicles through a
drop of up to 6% on import tariffs, also cheaper electronics and white goods.

The Trade Mission inclusion of former Prime Minister Bob Hawke is a strong bid for bi-partisan
support and so is Mr Abbott’s bilateral call for major Pacific Region powers to combine in naval
exercises to include the United States.
Despite dropping resource industry prices, China has flagged its need for another 860 million tonnes
of coal to maintain energy and steel industries, and iron ore to sustain steel production consumption
of an estimated 900 tonnes a year to supply the pace of urban and commercial development.
Japan and China are seeking greater investment opportunities in Australian farms and agribusiness
through an increase in Foreign Investment Review Board acquisition controls from $248 million to
more than $1 billion.

On the local scene, Livingstone Shire Council has moved on two important infrastructure investments,
with potential to pay their way through land sales, with purchase of land to extend the existing
industrial estate on Yeppoon Road to Bondoola to cater for expansion of industries and construction
of the vital Panorama Dr linking Farnborough Rd over the range to Adelaide Park Rd and the western
bypass.

Funding has been sought from the State’s Royalties for the Region Program.

Page96of259©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.This project also will draw road contributions from development of subdivisions both sides of the
range.

The Federal Coalition Government is trying to put together the May budget from the worsening
financial debt inherited from the 2013 defeat of the ALP and the strangling economic impact of the
Senate in opposing repeal of the carbon and mining taxes.

Without reducing debt by selling off some assets there is little hope for development of vital
infrastructure works for economic recovery, without increased taxes, higher costs and cuts to
spending.

NS

RE
PUB
AN

e211 : Government Taxation/Revenue | e512 : Physical Trade | e21 : Government Finance | e51 :
Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News
austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
APN Newspapers Pty Ltd
Document APNCCM0020140415ea4g000p1

Page97of259©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.