Enviro performer rating

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Enviro performer rating

323 words
13 October 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
38
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

The GPT Group and one of its key tenants, the National Australia Bank have become the first to gain a
rating for environmental performance – not just design – from the Green Building Council of Australia.
GPT's 800 Bourke Street property in Melbourne, which is fully tenanted by the NAB, has gained a
4 Star Green Star – Performance rating that according to the GBCA represents best practice in
sustainable building operations. GBCA chief executive, Romilly Madew, said the rating was the result of
exceptional collaboration between a building owner and a tenant. "The rating will ensure the building
continues to hold its value in a highly competitive commercial office market while demonstrating NAB's
commitment to providing work places that are productive, efficient and sustainable," she said.

Private investment group, Gwynvill, last week sold a retail property in Parramatta for $4.25 million.
The property, at 240 Church Street, next to St George, has 750 square metres of building on
590 square metres of land. The current lease expires in February giving potential for reletting or
redevelopment. Peter Karam of Belroy Property handled the sale. Until last month, Mr Karam and his
partner, Sam Agostino, operated the Ray White Commercial franchise in Parramatta. Robert Harley
Listed fund manager Aspen Group plans to launch an on-market buyback for one fifth of its stock, if its
shareholders approve it at their next annual meeting on November 10. Aspen has previously flagged it
will consider a buyback after selling down assets from its balance sheet. Separately, Aspen now
controls 40 per cent of its unlisted parks fund, after underwriting the shortfall in a $40 million capital
raising.

Nick Lenaghan
AMP Capital Investors is seeking to partner with Chinese shopping centre owners. The tie-ups could
range from initially providing advisory services to mainland mall developers to ultimately investing in real
estate, said Simon Vinson, head of Asian property at AMP Capital. Bloomberg

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

gbcaus : Green Building Council of Australia | gnprop : GPT Group | ncbnk : National Australia Bank Ltd
ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking |
i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150206 : Investment Trusts/Funds | i815020602 : Real
Estate Investment Trusts | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141012eaad0002p

Page77of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.