Shares look best in a tame field

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Market Wrap
Shares look best in a tame field

Bianca Hartge-Hazelman
1,849 words
10 June 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
22
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Investment Double-digit returns are unlikely this year, but shares still look best, writes Bianca
Hartge-Hazelman.

Shares will outperform cash and fixed interest in the year ahead, but don't expect a repeat of the 2014
financial year story, some fund managers say; the double digit returns we're enjoying now are unlikely to
be repeated in 2015.

Indeed, Australian shares are expected to underperform their international rivals over the next 12
months, as domestic headwinds stemming from federal budget measures, potentially higher interest
rates in 2015, and a high Australian dollar act as major drags on corporate profitability and investor
sentiment.

Australian Super chief investment officer Mark Delaney: "We think the factors that have driven markets
over the last year will remain in place over the next six to 12 months. Low interest rates, steady
economic recovery, will both lead to moderately strong equity performance. And the very low rates will
also make it very hard to make strong returns in fixed interest or cash. So the same-order returns we've
seen for the last 12 months, we expect to see in the next 12 months."

BT Financial Group head of Advance Asset Management Patrick Farrell: "I think the low interest rate
environment is going to be a key support pillar for risk assets in general and I think that's going to be
reflected potentially over the course of the next six months. But I also think that people know that
interest rates need to normalise, they need to get back to levels which are more akin to the sort of
conditions that we're used to.
"It's going to be a tightening on the economy and it's not necessarily going to foster a lot of equity
market benefit. So we're going to be in a position where I think over the course of the next six months,
equities [are] going to go through pockets of very strong performance followed by very weak
performance and that volatility is going to continue on for the next six months.

"People and investors need to get used to much lower levels of return going forward and I think we're
going to be on the brink of that from now on in. I think that the returns that we've been seeing on equity
markets are not necessarily going to be there in the future, certainly not at the levels that we've seen."

Mercer Multi-Manager Funds chief strategist David Stuart: "We are not expecting a repeat of last year's
performance for equities, but given that the other asset classes are looking quite expensive we think that
equities should deliver on a one-year view something close to or even exceeding their long-run return,
which is probably of the order of 7 to 10 per cent.

"We still have a preference for international equities and we think the Australian dollar probably has
further to come down over time – though timing the fall of a currency is always extremely difficult. The
Australian economy is subject to some headwinds; I think that will restrain profits growth and potentially
deteriorate the Australian market relative to global markets. It's looking just a touch expensive.

Page16of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."We expect bond yields to steadily rise. They have rallied quite a bit in the first half of this year. We
think, from here, that they're looking a little bit rich so bond yields will rise and that means capital values
of bonds will fall. That will be offset by the yield, but a fairly muted return possibly below cash for bonds
– so not our favoured asset class.

"In Australia there's quite a lot of pent-up demand for unlisted property so you'll probably see a good
return from that in the short term, but we shouldn't ignore the fact that the fundamentals of the property
market are quite challenging at the moment. So although prices may get pushed up by a weight of both
domestic and foreign investors, we suspect in the medium term that the returns from property won't be
as good as equities."

How have asset classes performed in FY2013-14?

Delaney: "The best-performing asset class has been shares. They have benefited from the pick-up in
the global economy and easier monetary policy. In particular international shares [have] done really well.
The share markets have done very well and the Australian dollar has come down a touch from very high
levels the previous year.

"Property and infrastructure have done pretty well as well. We think they will do around double-digit
returns for the 12 months to the end of June and the lower-returning asset classes have been bonds
and cash, reflecting the fact that those rates were already very low, there [are] limited opportunities to
earn more than what their underlying yield is."

Farrell: "Over the past financial year, equities has been the star outperformer – Australian equities and
international equities. It's been about 22 per cent, and if the market stays where it is it's been about a
22 per cent return for the last 12 months; that's been a really good outcome. Worst-performing asset
classes: probably cash with 2.7 per cent over the last 12 months; it's been hard to get anything lower
than that.
"Gold has been probably one of the worst performers; it's down about 11 per cent over the last 12
months. Other precious metals have gone down in value; silver's down about 18 per cent over the last
12 months, base metals in general just haven't had that sort of flow on. Energy as a commodity is
probably up around 8 to 10 per cent, and in the agricultural sector, cattle has been a very good
performer and that's because there is a demand for protein, particularly around the emerging world; but
other things like corn that really had a strong year last year [have] really given a lot of it back this year."

Stuart: "Clearly international equities have done better than any others with a return of about 21 per cent
for the financial year to date. Australian equities weren't far behind with a return of about 19 per cent but
still a very strong performance for equities. I think the Australian market has been held back by clearly
difficult economic conditions. Falling commodity prices has a big impact clearly on the resource stocks
within Australia. We've also had political uncertainty leading up to the May budget and even uncertainty
following the budget. So we see the Australian economy as muddling through at the moment,
notwithstanding quite a strong first-quarter growth number. That's probably the best number we'll see
this year. We've still got a strong headwind of a decline in mining investment which needs to be offset
by other parts of the economy though; overall, a mixed outlook I think for Australia."
Delaney: "The big thing which has driven equity market returns over the last year has been the easy
monetary policy adopted by the central banks in both Europe and the US and luckily also in Japan. The
very easy equity has propped up sharemarkets and made it very expensive to hold fixed interest
investments or cash investments.

"The second factor which has been important has been the gradual economic recovery we are seeing
both in the US, Europe and also seeing some signs of it in Australia as well. That gradual recovery has
fed through to earnings growth."
Farrell: "We also can't forget the fact that China, Brazil, Russia have got a lot of wealthy individuals now;
they are looking for places to actually invest their money. They don't necessarily want to invest it all in
their home countries for obvious reasons, so getting money out, particularly into the US market, has
been one of the key factors that's been driving equities higher.

"But one of the most important factors has been the fact that companies themselves have been buying
back their own shares, so in the $US550 billion [$587 billion] worth of money has basically flowed from
companies back into their own sharemarket. Now, that money has to find a home because it has been
given to the investors to buy back their shares, those investors then need to actually reinvest it in other
companies, so that's been one of the major supports of equities in the last 12 months."

Stuart: "Well it's predominately a re-rating of equities. It hasn't been matched by profit or earnings
growth over the last year I think investors have become more comfortable that we're slowly emerging

Page17of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.from the aftermath of the global financial crisis and they're looking forward to a period of low interest
rates, low inflation and sustained economic growth, and that's a pretty sweet spot for equities. We tend
to call it a 'Goldilocks' economy."

Delaney: "When we build portfolios, we like to build them for the long run. A 20-year horizon. And think
about the investor's needs in building the portfolio, and diversification. Given that caveat, we still think it
leads to one where you tilt your portfolio to more equities in the next 12 months reflecting the different
return expectations in those two asset classes.
Farrell: "I'm not necessarily going to look to my fixed income assets to generate significant returns and
in fact the potential for some negative returns coming in from a fixed income are a real possibility
depending on how fast interest rates rise. OK, there will be pockets of value in equities markets and I
think that will be a particular focus for a lot of investors. But there are also pockets of risk in equities. So
to look at a broad base equities market portfolio, getting a very low return is probably our expectation
but there will be pockets of opportunity and I think also, one of the things is looking at maybe more
absolute-return-based strategies and this can come from either alternative assets or basically structures
that have been put in place to take advantage of some of the volatility we could see.

Stuart: "We've been advising our clients to move their money overseas for the past few years and we do
advise some of the major super funds in Australia. I think we're only part way through that, I think that it's
been positive investment. I think Australian investors do recognise they are probably overexposed to the
Australian equity market, which is a very concentrated market. The banks and the resources make up a
very substantial part of the market. So you're not getting the diversification that you'll get by investing
internationally. So we think it's still got further to go and we think it's a good thing for the Australian
economy to have overseas investments as well as domestic investments."

RE
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140609ea6a00012

Page18of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.