Corporate: Centurion expands student housing portfolio amid tougher fight for workers’ dormitories

HD

BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Corporate: Centurion expands student housing portfolio amid tougher fight for workers’
dormitories
By Michelle Teo
1,579 words
28 July 2014
The Edge Singapore
EDGESI
English
(c) 2014 The Edge Publishing Pte Ltd. All Rights Reserved.

The Manchester Student Village sits next to a large open carpark. Its compact, utilitarian flats, with
windows fronting a narrow street, are not the most inspiring type of lodging. In greener environs,
however, housing units in Cathedral Campus in Liverpool have large windows overlooking lawns and
trees. In both cases, Centurion Corp CEO Kong Chee Min hopes the relatively cheap rent and prime
location, within reach of the tens of thousands of undergraduates at the nearby universities, will bring him
good returns.

Centurion, which has a market capitalisation of around $550 million, is buying Manchester Student
Village, along with two other student accommodation blocks in Manchester and Cathedral Campus in
Liverpool, for £77 million ($162.5 million). All the buildings cater to students at the nearby universities,
and have been operating close to full occupancy, Kong says. The properties are run by MCR Property
Group, which manages the student flats as well as residential, commercial and industrial units in the
UK. The acquisition, with 1,906 beds in total, is expected to contribute to Centurion’s earnings from
4Q2014, after it is completed on Sept 1.

Along with the 459-bed RMIT Village in Melbourne acquired last year, the move will also further diversify
Centurion’s portfolio of properties away from workers’ dormitories, a sector in which Centurion has a
strong presence, but that is increasingly competitive. Student housing provides an alternative and stable
income stream, the company says. “This is the starting foothold that we want,” Kong tells The Edge
Singapore. “We’re building up our capability, which in future could include development works as well.”

Centurion Corp was once known as CD and DVD maker SM Summit Holdings. It moved into the
accommodation business in 2011 through a $95 million reverse takeover (RTO) as opportunities in the
disc storage business started to decline. It initially focused on foreign workers’ accommodations. Through
the RTO, Centurion became the owner and operator of the Westlite dormitory at Toh Guan, and a 45%
partner in a joint venture with building contractor Lian Beng Group that owns three plots of freehold land
in Mandai, which have been developed into workers’ dormitories and a fully sold industrial ramp-up
building.
The company quickly built up its portfolio, which now has some 23,500 beds for foreign workers in
Singapore. It is building a fourth dormitory in Woodlands to be completed by mid-2015 that will cater for
non-construction workers and add 4,100 beds to its portfolio. Centurion had also set up a joint venture
with another construction company to acquire and develop six dormitory projects in Johor.

Workers’ housing restricted

There are some 40 commercially operated dormitories in Singapore on land leased by either the Building
and Construction Authority or JTC Corp, which therefore controls the supply of such housing. These
accommodations cater for construction labourers as well as workers in the manufacturing, oil and gas
and marine sectors. At the time of its RTO, Centurion noted that the demand for workers’ accommodation
was more than three times the supply.

Since then, several other players, mainly companies in the building sector, have muscled in on the
foreign worker dormitory business. Some of the dormitory operators are structural steel specialist TTJ
Holdings and engineering and property developer Tee International, which owns the 4,000-bed facility at
Marina South. In October 2013, property developer and contractor Wee Hur Holdings took a 60% stake

Page153of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.in a company that had just finished a 16,800-bed dormitory in Tuas South. Most recently, a joint venture
between TA Corp, King Wan Corp and SKM Development won the tender to build a 9,200-bed workers’
dormitory in Tuas South for $114 million. The development will be located on a 20-year leasehold land
awarded by JTC. TA Corp is the listed entity of construction company Tiong Aik, and King Wan provides
mechanical and electrical engineering services to contractors in Singapore.

Coupled with stringent controls by BCA and JTC, the workers’ accommodation sector is proving
uncomfortably tight. “Over the last year, the landscape for workers’ accommodation has changed,” says
Tony Bin, Centurion’s executive director for the accommodation business. “There are many players now
who were not previously in the foreign workers’ accommodation industry. And I think the playing field is
slightly different now. But, for us, we have this platform that we can use to grow overseas.”

Centurion has since expanded its accommodation business beyond Singapore, acquiring plots of land in
Johor and Jakarta to develop workers’ housing. It has five operational workers’ dormitories in Johor and
expects to open two more next year. It is holding another piece in Port Hedland, Western Australia, which
it acquired in September 2012 and where it planned to develop short-stay accommodation for workers
and businessmen in the region’s mining industry. Taken in total, Centurion’s portfolio will comprise more
than 53,000 rooms by end-2015.

Housing students

Citing strong demand in the sector, Kong expects about half of accommodation business revenue to
eventually come from student housing. He says student housing rents, while relatively low at about £100
a week, have typically increased 3% to 5% y-o-y.
According to global property market consultant Jones Lang LaSalle, student housing had become a
mainstream global asset class worth some US$200 billion at end-2012. This follows the growth in
enrolments in tertiary education institutions worldwide, which expanded 68% in the 2000-to-2011 period.
In 2015, 263 million enrolments are expected, up from about 165 million in 2011.

The most popular cities are in the US, the UK and Australia. International students make up a big part of
the enrolments; international enrolments in the UK for the first part of this year grew 7% from last year. In
Australia, there were nearly 411,000 international students last year, an increase of 2.3% y-o-y. About
45% of these students are aged between 20 and 24, and more than half hail from Asia, including China
and India.
In a 2012 report, Jones Lang LaSalle noted that student housing outperformed other commercial real
estate sectors in the US and the UK, delivering total returns of 11% to 15%. Investors have found the
sector attractive because of the high demand for accommodation, which outstripped supply, and the
resilience of the higher education sector to cyclical economic

downturns.

Interestingly, a recent survey by London Central Portfolio (LCP) showed that apartments in prime central
London districts are increasingly being leased out to undergraduates instead of investment bankers.
According to the property fund, the number of independently wealthy foreign student renters has
doubled from 2006 to account for 29% of the sector in 2012. The growth has continued, and in the last 12
months, students have represented 41% of new tenancies signed. Of course, the London addresses
command significantly higher rents than the Manchester or Liverpool hostels, however nice they may be.
LCP says the students outbid the corporate sector to pay £600 a week.

“London has become a magnet to these privately wealthy young adults who are looking for top-quality
accommodation to go with their top-drawer education,” the LCP report says, noting that more growth
opportunities lie ahead, with 82% of affluent Chinese families planning overseas education for their
children.

Student dorms to grow

Is housing students going to prove even more lucrative than workers’ dormitories for Centurion?

Certainly, the expectation of the growing numbers of international students entering the UK and Australia
has spurred investment in student accommodation in recent years. In January, Singapore’s GIC
announced that it had formed a joint venture with Macquarie Capital to acquire a majority interest in
Australian student accommodation group Iglu, which has three off-campus housing projects in Sydney
and Brisbane. Individual units are also being sold to investors. In March this year, a two-day investment
sales event at an Orchard Road hotel saw investors snapping up units from about £53,000 ($111,816)
after being guaranteed an 8% yield for five years.

Page154of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.But yields from overseas student accommodation are not necessarily better than those from workers’
housing in Singapore, Centurion’s Kong and Bin acknowledge. “Student accommodation in places such
as the UK and Australia attract a lot more international players. So, there’s a levelling of rates,” Bin
explains.
Whatever the case, with just workers’ housing, the accommodation business unit generated $5.4 million
in earnings in 1QFY2014, or 32% more than the year before.

UOB Kay Hian has raised its FY2014-to-FY2016 earnings forecasts by 3.8% to 14.1% to take into
account income from student accommodation. “Despite the favourable operating dynamics of the
workers’ dormitory market, stiff competition from dormitory assets has affected Centurion’s ability to
expand its local portfolio aggressively while maintaining a reasonable return on investment,” analyst Loke
Chunying writes in a July 17 note. “Gradual addition in supply and/or a downturn in Singapore’s economy
may reduce the flow of foreign labour, which may affect future rental income [from workers’ dormitories].”
Loke expects student housing, which will represent 5.8% of Centurion’s portfolio after the acquisition, to
contribute about 30% of FY2015 earnings. The brokerage has hiked its price target by 8.7% to $1, with a
“buy” recommendation.

Centurion’s share price has gained nearly 8% since the announcement, and is trading at 16 times
forward earnings.

NS

RE

guni : University/College | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General
News | gedu : Education
singp : Singapore | austr : Australia | uk : United Kingdom | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | seasiaz : Southeast Asia | weurz :
Western Europe

PUB The Edge Publishing Pte Ltd
AN

Document EDGESI0020140730ea7s00009

Page155of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.