"REDEVELOPMENT OF THE SITE WOULD BREATHE NEW LIFE INTO CENTRAL SOUTHPORT," SAYS STATE DEVELOPMENT MINISTER SEENEY

HD

"REDEVELOPMENT OF THE SITE WOULD BREATHE NEW LIFE INTO CENTRAL SOUTHPORT,"
SAYS STATE DEVELOPMENT MINISTER SEENEY

WC 513 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

24 September 2014
Australian Government News
HTAUGN
English
Copyright 2014. HT Media Limited. All rights reserved.

BRISBANE, Queensland, Sept. 24 -- Jeff Seeney, State Development, Infrastructure and Planning
Minister issued the following media statement:

A once-in-a-generation development will begin today with the Queensland Government inviting
expressions of interest for the sale of the former Gold Coast Hospital site.

TD

Deputy Premier and Minister for State Development, Infrastructure and Planning Jeff Seeney said
redevelopment of the site would breathe new life into central Southport.
"Today's announcement presents a rare opportunity for a company to acquire a 3.4 hectare site and
create a vibrant new precinct in the heart of Southport," Mr Seeney said.

"Our government is determined to make the best use of state land, whether it be offering land to
community groups for charitable purposes or to private parties with the financial capacity to revitalise
sites.

"We also pledged to deliver better planning and last year, in conjunction with council, we declared central
Southport a Priority Development Area to streamline the approvals processes and fast-track development.

"I anticipate this opportunity will attract strong competition from the private sector and generate new
construction jobs for the Gold Coast.
"I look forward to seeing this property jewel transformed into an exciting hub for the Southport
community."

Assistant Minister for Planning and Member for Southport Rob Molhoek said Savills Australia had been
appointed to run the marketing and Expression of Interest campaign, which will begin with advertisements
from tomorrow.
"In order to provide the best possible options to market, this large development site has approval to be
subdivided in three lots with an internal road," Mr Molhoek said.
"It is being offered for sale as one parcel or any combination of its three subdivided lots.

"The Priority Development Area plan supports a mix of uses, unlimited height and provides flexibility and
innovation to private parties wanting to invest in this iconic piece of property.
"It is perfectly positioned to capitalise on more than $3 billion in infrastructure spending underway in
Southport, including the development of the new Gold Coast University Hospital, the Gold Coast Rapid
Transit system, the Commonwealth Games and the new China Town Precinct.

"As a maturing city, this tremendous opportunity to shape the Southport CBD is open to all and I
encourage proponents to submit their visions for this site."
The site features three street frontages with easy access to major roads.
A station of the new Gold Coast Rapid Transit light rail system, linking Southport with major centres on
the Gold Coast, is directly adjacent to the site.

Page161of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Work is underway to demolish buildings on the site, with work scheduled to be completed next year,
ensuring the property will be sold as a cleared development site.
Gold Coast community members had their say on the Priority Development Area's development scheme
from April-May this year.

Expressions of interest will close at 4pm on Friday, 7 November.

CT

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com
gpol : Domestic Politics | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations
austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

NS
RE
PUB HT Media Limited
AN

Document HTAUGN0020140924ea9o0002t

Page162of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.