$10b ore project takes shape

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

General
$10b ore project takes shape

Peter Klinger
365 words
20 June 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
Second
7
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

Amid the doom and gloom that hangs over WA’s iron ore industry, foundations are being poured,
bridges built and rail tracks laid as construction of Gina Rinehart’s $10 billionRoy Hill project races
towards the half-way mark.

With a target of first production by September next year, Roy Hill’s construction is 43 per cent
complete. The mine site 115km north of Newman, the 344km railway to the coast and a two-berth
ship loading operation at Port Hedland are taking shape.

More than 3500 workers are involved in Roy Hill’s construction, a rare ray of sunshine in the State
shaken by the cancellation of resources projects, scaling back of operations and endless productivity
drives that have cost thousands of jobs. Low metals prices — iron ore prices are at a two-year low —
and WA’s persistently high construction and operating costs have caused the malaise.
Roy Hill also promises a fillip for WA coffers, which will swell with millions of dollars in royalties,
based on the mine’s annual production of 55 million tonnes of iron ore.
“We look forward to becoming a major iron ore producer on an international scale, and thank our
partners for their steadfast support for this major Australian project,” Mrs Rinehart said yesterday.
In a rarity for the industry, Mrs Rinehart’s Roy Hill partners are not from China, which buys more of
the steel-making ingredient than any other country.
Japan’s Marubeni, South Korea’s Posco and Taiwan’s China Steel Corp have injected $3.65 billion
in return for a 30 per cent stake in Roy Hill, expected to become Australia’s biggest single-site iron
ore operation.
Roy Hill’s processing site, which will include ore crushers and scrubbers, stockpiles and reclaimers,
train loaders and conveyors linking it to the mine pits, is surrounded by a teardrop-shaped railway
loop for trains to and from Port Hedland.
In full flight, Roy Hill’s 1200-strong operational workforce will each year move 350 million tonnes of
material before extracting 68mt of iron ore for processing and loading 55mt on to ships in Port
Hedland.

IN
NS
RE
PUB
AN

i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | i22 : Primary Metals | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources
c21 : Output/Production | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document TWAU000020140619ea6k0000b

Page229of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.