Major Thermal Coal Projects in NSW (2)

HD Major Thermal Coal Projects in NSW (2)
WC 777 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

17 November 2014
Tex Energy Report
TEXERE
English
Copyright 2014. The TEX Report Ltd.

TD

<> China First Project
China First project aims to exploit several unexplored mining areas in the Gulilee Basin and export
thermal coals produced at these mining areas to China and other Asian countries. The interest in this
project is wholly owned by Waratah Coal Pty Ltd., an unlisted company led by Mr. Clive Palmer, one of
the rich men in Australia.

China First project aims to exploit 2 opencast mining areas and 4 underground mining areas as well as
build two large-size coal handling and preparation plants (CHPP). All of the underground mining areas
are to be operated by a longwall (LW) mining system. The production volumes of raw coal at each
opencast mining area and each underground mining area are 10Mtpa and 9Mtpa respectively, and after
the exploitation of these mining areas finishes, the production volume of raw coal will reach a total of
56Mtpa.
The preparation capacity of raw coal at CHPP is 56Mtpa in total (28Mtpa x 2 plants), and the coal
preparation yield is about 72%. So, the production volume of saleable coal will be 40Mtpa on a full-scale
production basis.
What's more, as part of China First project, a total length of 453 km railway for coal transportation will be
constructed newly in order to transport thermal coals produced at aforementioned mining areas to the
port of Abbot Point, and a large-scale coal terminal will be built at this port for exclusive use of coal
loading.
Waratah Coal has a thought of starting coal production from China First project in the 2nd quarter of
2017 upon the acquisition of various permits and license from the State of QLD, etc.

However, in the middle of June 2014, the QLD State Government decided not to approve the railway
project planned by Waratah Coal. As the development of large-scale coal mines and the construction of
railway and coal terminal are integrated with each other, unless the coal shipping routes is secured, it will
be difficult to start large-scale coal mines with a coal production capacity being 40Mtpa.
Therefore, unless the railway project is approved, Waratah Coal will have no other choice but to put Chian
First project itself on the shelf. Because of that, the Company has adopted a stance to file an action
against the QLD State Government in order to bring this railway project into shape.

<> Carmichael Project
Carmichael project aims to exploit Carmichael mining area (EPC 1690), an unexplored thermal coal
mining area in the Gulilee Basin, and export thermal coal produced at this mining area to India, etc. from
the port of Abbot Point. The interest in this project is 100% owned by Adani Mining Pty Ltd., a wholly
owned subsidiary of Adani Group.

After obtaining the permits and licenses from the State of QLD, etc., Adani Group has a thought of starting
coal production from Carmichael project within 2016. Firstly, the opencast mining area will be exploited,
and 2Mpa of thermal coal will be produced.
Furthermore, Carmichael project aims to expand the opencast mining area as well as exploit the
underground mining area, and the production volume of thermal coal will go up to 60Mtpa from 2022

Page78of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.onwards. This thermal coal is supposed to be consumed at coal-fired thermal power plants in India run by
Adani Power Limited.
For the purpose to export thermal coal produced from Carmichael project from the port of Abbot Point,
Adani Group plans to build about 300 km railway for coal transportation linking its own coal mine to this
port and construct a new coal terminal (T0) with a maximum of 70Mtpa of coal exporting capacity at this
port. The total project cost inclusive of infrastructures is A$16.5 billion. The construction of railway for
coal transportation has 2 phases, and in the first phase, a 189 km railway linking its own coal mine to the
existing railway will be built.

Carmichael project was approved by the QLD State Government on 8 May 2014 and then by the Federal
Government on July 28. Furthermore, the QLD State Government approved the plan for construction of
railway for coal transportation related to this project on August 14.
And, on August 8, Adani Group decided to purchase the royalty for Carmichael project from Linc Energy
Ltd. for A$155 million.
In this regard, when Linc Energy sod a 100% interest in Carmichael project to Adani Group on 10 August
2010, the Company acquired a right to receive A$2 per ton of coal as a royalty for the period extending to
20 years after commencement of coal production from this project.

(to be continued)

IN
RE

i111 : Coal Mining | i1 : Energy | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
china : China | nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
austr : Australia | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries |
dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

PUB The Tex Report Ltd.
AN

Document TEXERE0020141114eabh00005

Page79of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.