AMP's China coup

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

AMP's China coup

1,282 words
31 October 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
40
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Chanticleer
It requires a deeper understanding of the Chinese pension market to fully comprehend the significance
of the AMP's acquisition of a 20 per cent stake in China Life Pension Company. On a couple of
measures it looks like a small scale deal. The $240 million cost of that stake is equal to about 1.5 per
cent of AMP's market capitalisation. Also, the China Life Pension Company's asset under management
are smaller than the AMP corporate super business at home.

But compare the growth prospects of the Australian operations with those in China and it is obvious
chief executive Craig Meller is tapping into a massive opportunity.
AMP's corporate super business in Australia might have $24 billion in assets under management
compared to only $14.7 billion in assets under investment in China Life Pension Company.

But it is safe to say that AMP's corporate super business is ex-growth. in the latest quarter it had net
cash flows of $16 million.
The pension market in China totals $100 billion at the moment. But Meller says it is tipped to grow to
$700 billion by 2020.
Growth in China's enterprise annuities market has been about 26 per cent a year during the past five
years.
AMP is the first foreign company in the world to purchase a stake in a Chinese pension company
with three licences allowing end-to-end services throughout China, the company said.
AMP shareholders will not see immediate gains from their company's latest Asian expansion. The
acquisition is not expected to be earnings accretive until 2017.
Meller is right to emphasise the fact that this deal follows years of investment in time and energy by
AMP staff working with senior management of China Life, which is the ultimate parent of China Life
Pension Company.
China Life, which is the largest life insurance company in the world by market capitalisation, has been
working with AMP on a formal basis since 2005. AMP has been in China since 1997.

The two companies signed a memorandum of understanding for strategic cooperation in August 2009.
In September last year, AMP Capital and China Life Asset Management Company formed a joint
venture, China Life AMP Asset Management Company.
Meller told Chanticleer, that he had been working on the deal with China Life Pension Company for
more than a year but it had been a possibility for a lot longer than that.
He says the advantage of this transaction is that the regulatory settings in China are changing to
encourage increased private sector savings for pensions.

Page259of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.That will encourage the growth in the pension business.
At a recent luncheon event in Sydney, senior Chinese officials told a group of prominent businessmen
and women that China was very attracted to the features of the Australian retirement savings system.
However, the officials stressed that it would take many years for China to build the infrastructure
necessary to marshall the savings of Chinese workers within a national system.
Meller says the China Pension Life Company deal gives AMP a strategic foothold in the rapidly
growing enterprise annuity segment of China's pension market.

In a model for what could happen if Australia took seriously the invitation to join the Asian Investment
Infrastructure Bank, AMP will nominate two directors to the 11 member board of China Life Pension
Company.
China Life Insurance Group Chairman Yang Mingsheng said: "This marks a new chapter of
transformation for China Life in the diversification of its equity base, internationalising its business and
making its operations more market-orientated."

While National Australia Bank chief executive Andrew Thorburn did not give a deadline for selling
Clydesdale and Yorkshire Banks it would not be surprising if it all got done in 12 months.

The fact that Morgan Stanley and Macquarie Capital have been appointed to help sell the assets says
the process is far more advanced than it would first appear.
The lead managers on the Great Western Bank initial public offering in the United States are Deutsche
Bank and Bank of America. A feature of Thorburn's short tenure as CEO has been moving faster than
expected and confronting troublesome issues rather than leaving them under the carpet.
The UK banks have a book value of $4 billion. Considering they do not have significant exposure to the
rich southern part of the UK it will be difficult to get more than book value.
In fact the example offered by chief financial officer Craig Drummond when asked how the sale might
unfold does not encourage high expectations.

He said TSB Banking Group is a comparator for Clydesdale and Yorkshire. But it trades at a 20 per cent
discount to its book value. That would suggest NAB taking an $800 million write down on its balance
sheet value.
Analysts have speculated that a sale might even be as low as 50 per cent of book value but that would
surely be too hard a pill to swallow. The message from Thorburn is that he needs to put as much capital
as possible into Australia and New Zealand where it can earn a return on equity of 17 per cent.
However, that calculation is based on the banking world before the release of the final report of David
Murray's Financial System Inquiry. That report is likely to recommend higher capital ratios for banks, a
floor in the risk weighting of mortgages and a consequence of that is lower profit margins.

Funds managers are a leveraged play on movements in financial markets which helps explain why an
employee of Westpac Banking Corp's funds management arm, BT Investment Management,Gavin
Rochussen is paid more than Westpac's chief executive Gail Kelly. Rochussen is chief executive of fund
manager J.O. Hambro Capital Management, which was bought by BTIM in 2011. His total employment
benefits in the year to September 2014 were $10.78 million including $8.9 million in long term equity
payments, based on the grant value of share-based payments. Kelly was paid $9.32 million in 2013.
Rochussen is a participant in four equity schemes including the Senior Staff Bonus Scheme, CEO
Award, Senior Management Award and the CEO Performance Award.

The year 2014 will go down as a year to have been a fund manager at BTIM, which specialises in
multi-boutique funds management. The remuneration of portfolio managers and analysts working in 17
different BT investment teams includes revenue sharing arrangements and the splitting of performance
fees.
Revenue from base management fees rose 36 per cent to $289.7 million while performance fees rose
180 per cent to $121.8 million. In relation to performance fees alone, about $70 million was shared by
50 people.

The huge increase in payments to fund managers helps explain the 48 per cent increase in cash
operating expenses to $258.5 million. Employee costs rose 59 per cent to $203 million.

The BTIM annual report says its remuneration structure does not allow fund managers to "fall prey to an
asset gathering mentality at the cost of investment performance". However, equity incentives are tied to

Page260of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.growth in funds under management. At September 30, BTIM had $75 million in potential share grants
for fund managers. BTIM's chief executive Emilio Gonzalez says the fund managers have only done
well because the clients in BT funds have done well. He says the higher base and performance fees
were paid because the fundies added $900 million in additional value to BT funds. Gonzalez earned $3
million in 2014 based on the grant value of share-based payments.

tony.boyd@afr.com.au Twitter @TonyBoydAFR

Tony Boyd

CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

austmp : AMP Ltd | clich : China Life Insurance Co Ltd | cliigc : China Life Insurance (Group) Company
i8150214 : Private Pension Funds | iinv : Investing/Securities | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles
| ifinal : Financial Services | ipension : Pension Funds | i82 : Insurance | i82002 : Life Insurance
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | reqris : Suggested Reading Investing/Securities | redit : Selection of
Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141030eaav00014

Page261of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.