Hong Kong executives quit despite Leung's secret payout

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Hong Kong executives quit despite Leung's secret payout

John Garnaut, Richard Baker, Nick McKenzie
490 words
15 October 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
3
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Two of the three top managers in the DTZ property services empire left the business just weeks after
the man who built it, Hong Kong's chief executive, CY Leung, signed a £4 million ($7.3 million)
agreement promising to retain their services.
Mr Leung signed his lucrative side-agreement with the Australian firm that bought his insolvent
business, UGL, late in 2011 when he launched his successful run for chief executive.

Fairfax Media's revelations about the agreement has attracted blanket coverage in Hong Kong,
where Mr Leung was already under pressure from pro-democracy protesters to resign.

The contract says a portion of Mr Leung's payments were to be reduced by 5 per cent for each
nominated manager who left UGL and joined a competing business.

The second and third names on the list of 20 are managers David Watt and Alan Wong, according to
a previously unseen schedule.

Mr Watt and Mr Wong were so valuable to the business that Mr Leung gave them special mentions
when he announced he would leave the company and run for office.
"In ... David Watt and Alan Wong, DTZ's operations in the Asia Pacific region have an exceptional
executive management team and I have every confidence that they will continue to lead the
business to further success," said Mr Leung in November 2011, while also highlighting a third
manager, Edmund Cheung, who stayed with the business.
Fairfax Media can confirm Mr Leung received his £4 million pay-out in full, according to sources
familiar with the arrangement.

The payments were made in two equal instalments in December 2012 and 2013, after Mr Leung had
become the city's top official, and no discounts were applied even though Mr Watt and Mr Wong left
DTZ to join competing businesses.

A spokesman for UGL on Tuesday said it would not seek recovery of payments made to Mr Leung
because the two managers were made redundant under a special global restructure program, which
vitiated the discount clause.
The company did not say how Mr Watt and Mr Wong had gone from being seen as vital to
redundant in a matter of weeks.

Other documents seen by Fairfax, however, paint a more complete picture of how the side deal was
put in place. Those documents show the agreement was negotiated in full knowledge of all key
parties, despite previous statements to the contrary.

Page196of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.It is clear from emails sent in the weeks leading up to the December 2, 2011 agreement that the
terms that Mr Leung secured from UGL were substantially the same as he had negotiated but not
completed under the previous management, DTZ.
Those parties include the primary creditor and vendor in the sale of DTZ, the Royal Bank of Scotland,
administrators Ernst & Young, and DTZ chairman Tim Melville-Ross.

RE

PUB
AN

austr : Australia | china : China | hkong : Hong Kong | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020141014eaaf0003q

Page197of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.