Small, high-cost iron ore miners face year of reckoning

HD
BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Small, high-cost iron ore miners face year of reckoning

By Manolo Serapio Jr and James Regan
943 words
12 March 2014
07:00
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2014 Reuters Limited

SINGAPORE/SYDNEY, March 12 (Reuters) - Small iron ore miners from Australia to Canada and
China face a potential shakeout, as a steep fall in prices makes it harder to raise funds for planned
growth and boosts the prospect of a round of mine closures.
Iron ore prices <.IO62-CN=SI> posted their biggest one-day fall in four-and-a-half years on Monday to
below $105 a tonne - from a peak of nearly $200 in February 2011 - amid forecasts that supply could
outstrip demand by more than 90 million tonnes this year, the biggest global surplus since at least
2006.

Top miners such as Brazil's Vale and BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto in Australia, which dig up iron ore for
as low as $20 a tonne, can easily weather a downturn.

But the price fall spells hard times for smaller producers, where production costs can run as high as
$100 a tonne, owing to lower ore grades and fewer economies of scale.

"It's going to be very tough for everybody, but for high-cost miners, some are going to face life and
death problems," said Greg Pan Guocheng, chief executive of China Hanking Holdings Ltd, a privately
owned mainland miner.
"Price decreases will certainly lead a lot of small miners in China to either diversify or close down
depending on how bad the price performs."
Hanking, which has five mines in China's northeast, uses modern technology and digs relatively
richer-grade ores, which means its cash costs run at around 400 yuan ($65) a tonne, below those of
many of its rivals, although Pan said falling prices would "certainly impact" profit margins.
A slump in iron ore to a three-year low of $86.70 in September 2012 shut more than a third of China's
thousand-plus small-scale producers, although many later reopened when prices rebounded.
Growing signs of a downturn in China's rampant steel demand has pushed iron prices down 22
percent so far this year, well below the critical $120 threshold that has kept higher-cost producers in
business.

Citigroup sees the price falling to $80 by 2016, citing "inescapable market surpluses".
BHP Billitoniron ore head Jimmy Wilson said higher cost producers without the benefit of large
economies of scale faced a tougher time in weathering price dips.

"This will impact our organisation much less than other Western Australia producers," Wilson told
reporters on Tuesday.
Goldman Sachs has said 20 percent of iron ore production in China may shut over 2014 and 2015,
while up to 80 million tonnes of production capacity may not be needed this year. UBS put the figure at
94 million tonnes - compared with global seaborne trade of 1.2 billion tonnes last year.

Page60of270©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Goldman says the surplus could grow to 260 million tonnes by 2017 as miners ramping up output
misjudge China's demand.

HIGH COSTS DENT HOPES
Outside of China, miners in Canada are cutting costs and struggling to fund operations, while in
Australia, smaller producers are bracing for cost pressures.

North America's Cliffs Natural Resources Inc is facing an ugly battle for control with an activist fund
investor, sparked by the cost of its Canadian iron ore operation, which produced 8.7 million tonnes of
ore at a cash cost of more than $105 a tonne.
Labrador Iron Mines Holdings (LIM), also operating in the Labrador trough in Eastern Canada, has
warned it will need fresh investment to continue mining this year after heavy investment and a fall in
iron ore grades.
Citigroup said a significant fall in iron ore prices may put future projects at risk, including Australian
billionaireGina Rinehart's $7.8-billionRoy Hill project and even Vale's Carajas Serra Sul mine
extension in Brazil.
"The companies without the benefit of infrastructure, the ability to bring iron ore to the market at
competitive costs are the most exposed to the price," said Wayne Richards, executive chairman of
Australia-listed Tawana Resources, which is digging an iron ore mine in Liberia.

"What you do not want is a capital intensive project right now."
In Australia, Atlas Iron has a blueprint to triple output to 31 million tonnes a year. The company can
generate enough cash to fund two years of spending, but may also face a minimum A$600-A$700
million bill to lay a rail spur and a further A$500 million in development costs, RBC Capital Markets
estimates, unless it shares infrastructure with a rival.

"It's likely Atlas would have to gear up materially to fund, or partially fund such development," RBC
said.
Gindalbie Metals, which has a minority stake in the Western Australia Karara venture with China's
Anshan Iron and Steel Group Corp, faces further dilution if, as analysts expect, Ansteel covers its
forthcoming loan payment.
Gindalbie, which expects to ship as much as 4.5 million tonnes in the second half, carries production
costs of $70 a tonne or more.
For others, such as Flinders Mines Ltd, finding the funding to get the ore to market may now prove a
major hurdle.
After a frustrating several years seeking a "way out" for ore from a Pilbara deposit some 200 km (125
miles) from the coast, Flinders believes it has found a solution via a joint venture, but the project still
comes with a hefty $3.3 billion price tag. ($1 = 6.1462 Chinese yuan) (Reporting by Manolo Serapio
Jr. in Singapore and James Regan in Sydney; Editing by Richard Pullin)

RF
IN

NS

RE

IPD
IPC
PUB
AN

Released: 2014-3-11T22:00:30.000Z
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | imet : Mining/Quarrying |
i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources
c21 : Output/Production | c171 : Share Capital | reqrmm : Suggested Reading Metals/Mining | c17 :
Funding/Capital | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types |
nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | redit : Selection of Top
Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
china : China | austr : Australia | cana : Canada | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | sydney :
Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz :
Greater China | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America |
nswals : New South Wales
Business
SERVICE:ABN
Thomson Reuters (Markets) LLC
Document LBA0000020140311ea3b00znk

Page61of270©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Page62of270©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.