Banks' foreign investor role questioned

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Banks' foreign investor role questioned

Clancy Yeates
428 words
22 July 2014
Canberra Times
CANBTZ
B009
English
(c) 2014 The Canberra Times

Banks' foreign investor role questioned Inquiry Spotlight on local real estate

Clancy Yeates

Large Australian banks are heavily targeting foreign investors but a federal parliamentary inquiry has
raised questions about the checks they are conducting on overseas buyers. As foreign investment in
housing surges and banks eye their cut, lenders' activities in relation to overseas buyers are under
scrutiny as part of a broader House of Representatives economics committee inquiry into residential
housing. ANZ bank and Macquarie Group were asked to provide details to the inquiry of what steps they
took to ensure various foreign investment rules were followed. The responses from banks, published this
month, highlight the limitations of what lenders currently know about foreign real estate investors.
Macquarie Group was asked what it did to make sure loan clients were not misusing the Significant
Investor Visa and diverting the funds into property assets. The visa fast-tracks residency status for
wealthy foreigners who invest at lease $5million in bonds, certain managed funds, or private companies.
Macquarie Group told the inquiry it did not directly monitor how loaned funds were spent but it had the
power to call in the loan or seize collateral early if clients were dishonest.ANZ, which is actively targeting

Asian customers, was asked whether it traced the source of income for individual foreign buyers when it
was lending money to domestic property developers. The bank's response, published this month, said it
did not trace foreign buyers' source of income, but it checked the post- codes of "pre-sales" to make sure
they were genuine. The trend highlights the global pressure on banks to know more about their
customers' financial dealings. Australian Bankers' Association chief Steven Munchenberg said in a
submission to the inquiry that when banks were lending to developers, they did not have direct contact
with the foreign buyers and could therefore not investigate their funds. "Basically, a bank will seek to
ensure that the pre-sales contracts represent genuine sales," he said. "The source of funding for foreign
purchasers, however, is generally not investigated." The inquiry comes amid allegations wealthy
Chinese residents are using back-channels to move money out of the country, including into Australian
property. Macquarie analysts said in a report last week that Australian lending to non-residents had
surged 27per cent in the year to March.
Figures to the inquiry by Treasury show approvals of overseas purchases were $24.8 billion in the first
nine months of 2013-14, a jump of 93percent on the previous year.

58619785

RF
CO mcqbnk : Macquarie Group Limited
IN

i814 : Banking | i831 : Financial Investments | i83101 : Investment Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal :
Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB Federal Capital Press of Australia Pty Ltd
AN

Document CANBTZ0020140721ea7m0001v

Page160of234©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.