Narooma News letters: March 12

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

opinion
Narooma News letters: March 12

2,606 words
12 March 2014
Narooma News
FNARON
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

The conspiracy widens!

AS readers of the 'letters to the editor' section of the paper will have gleaned by now, many climate
change deniers discount the views of the Bureau of Meteorology, the CSIRO, the IPCC, the UN, 97
per cent of climate scientists, etc., etc., on the basis that those organisations and groups are all part of
some world-wide socialist conspiracy to tax the (deserving) rich and to redistribute the proceeds to the
(undeserving) poor.

Well it seems that the deniers will now have to add BHP Billiton to that very long list of socialist
conspirators.

Last week, in a speech at the global energy industry's major annual conference in Texas, Dr Andrew
Mackenzie, CEO of BHP Billiton, made the following statement.

"Predicting the detail of the future climate is complex but the geological evidence record provides
compelling evidence. Substantial variation in CO2 and other greenhouse gases results in temperature
changes with potentially significant implications for life on Earth. Warming of the climate is real, human
activity is the dominant cause of this warming and physical impacts are unavoidable."

He went on to list a number of things that the fossil fuel industry must do in relation to the climate
change problem.

One of those recommendations was for the industry to "encourage the development of constructive
policy, including appropriate carbon pricing mechanisms, that enable the market to identify the most
cost-effective methods of cutting emissions".

I can't wait to see how the likes of Tony ("climate change is crap") Abbott, Andrew Bolt, Alan Jones,
Lord Monckton, etc., go about explaining to BHP Billiton's CEO and his top team of scientists and
economists that they wouldn't know what they are talking about!

Jim Bright

Narooma

Catholic church opposes parking
THE car park proposed by council will be built 6 metres from the Presbytery's northern wall which
means that all the Presbytery's bedrooms" and living areas" windows as well as glass sliding doors will
face the car park, only 6 metres away.
The site, identified in a 2011 Council survey of Narooma's parking needs, meets Council's zoning
requirements, but is in reality a deep, open-sided gorge which will need a huge amount of fill and
heavy compaction.

The design includes a high retaining wall of massive concrete blocks to hold the fill from spilling
downhill.

Page245of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The Narooma Catholic Parish objected on the grounds that the car park will have a serious adverse
impact on the Presbytery's amenity, privacy and value. It also mentioned that because the site is
"landlocked', away from the supervision of any trafficked street, there will always be the potential for
vandalism. The Canberra Goulburn Archdiocese also objected along similar lines.
Another and critical issue raised by the Parish is that of public access to the site through the lane next
to the Vinnies Centre.

Before ratepayers" money is spent on this project, it would be sensible to re-examine the Right of
Carriageway arrangement to determine whether public access can be challenged in law, now or in
future, and particularly within the context of increased vehicular/pedestrian traffic and liability for injury
or damage to public users.

The matter of insurance cover and responsibility also needs to be reviewed and agreed. The Parish is
currently awaiting expert legal advice.

To date Council has been dismissive of the Parish's objections, notwithstanding the fact that an 88
signature petition was lodged and representatives from both the Parish and the Archdiocese spoke
against the proposal.

In fairness, it must be mentioned that council has offered to provide some landscaping on the
Presbytery's property in an attempt to lessen the impact of the development, however this is unlikely
to have any worthwhile effect.

The Parish recently submitted to council a list and photos of underutilised, poorly signposted and in
some cases rundown car parks in the Narooma business area which could be upgraded to promote
parking options in lieu of developing 11 Canty Street.

In its May 2013 letter the Parish asked Council to provide its Environmental Impact Assessment, the
budgeted cost for the 26 car park spaces and the easement provisions covering the Right of Way over
Church land. Still no word.
Given the topographical nature of the site - big, big hole! - the massive retaining wall needed as well
as the huge amount of compacted fill, the project may turn out to be one of the most expensive car
parks per space in the shire.

As citizens and rate payers of the shire we believe that, we and your readers, have the right to know
how wisely and efficiently our rates are spent; also that councillors are elected to serve the community,
not ignore its requests for information.

Please tell us, Eurobodalla Shire Council, just how much is it going to cost the Shire's ratepayers to
provide these 26 parking spaces?

Father J. Tran, P. Bird, A. Dellamarta, J.Nash, K. Pisk. A. Shepherd and W. Smith

Parish Committee members

Seaside Fair says thanks

THE Bermagui Seaside Fair Committee and Dennis Olmstead, coordinator of the inaugural event
"Umbrellas of Bermagui", and all sponsors and artists, wish to publicly acknowledge and thank Stan
Gorton and staff from Narooma News for the fantastic media assistance leading up to and following
another wonderfully successful event.

We also thank everyone who attended the fair including all the events held during the week before,
and the concert on Sunday. Thank you all.

Lori Hammerton

Bermagui Seaside Fair publicity officer

Please identify yourselves
THIS week I received a letterbox drop from "a group of concerned citizens" inviting me to join their
protest against the display and potential sale of firearms at Narooma HuntFest, on the basis that this
will lead to a "gun culture" taking over the Eurobodalla.

I don't hunt or shoot, although I did many years ago and found that hunters and shooters were pretty
much like any other sports people, mostly reasonable and responsible members of society.

Page246of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Nor, as far as I can tell, did associating with them cause me any psychological damage.

And let's be clear, a "gun culture" is the sort of thing that the US has, written into law on the basis of its
constitution.

Our firearms laws could hardly be further from that, and in fact are often quoted by US legislators who
want to reduce firearms ownership/deaths in the States as a model for laws that prevent a "gun
culture" developing.

Displaying guns at Narooma once year is never going to change our firearms legislation.

What does worry me though, is that the "concerned citizens" have failed to identify themselves: no
names on the flyer, just email addresses and a post office box.

Anonymity usually means that people have something to hide. Is this a front for a political party " a
reasonable question given that The Greens led opposition to the first HuntFest? Is there some other
agenda? It is just the first step in an internet scam?

If the "concerned citizens" fail to identify themselves, I suggest your readers do what I will do: ignore
them.

David Kelly

Akolele

Take climate action now

I FIND it disappointing that this country has managed to turn climate change into a political football,
when it is too important a problem to be treated that way.

It is disappointing as well to see the same misinformation being trotted out ad infinitum.

Much is made of the temporary lull in the surface global temperature increase however it is not the first
time there has been a pause.

The previous pause happened in 1950 or thereabout and lasted until around 1970 and it was followed
by a sharp increase which continued unabated until the turn of the century.

The real problem is that while there may be bumps in the road the CO2 emissions continue to climb
and the global temperature continues on an upward trajectory.

It must surely be clear to everyone that with wildfire and heat waves coming earlier in the season,
temperature records being broken all over Australia and droughts, even though we are not in an el
Nino year, something is happening to change the climate.

Science clearly identifies increases in atmospheric CO2 as the main driver.

We are now measuring global temperatures in multiple locations on land in weather stations, in the
atmosphere with balloons and in the deep oceans with unmanned submarines.

It seems the deep oceans are absorbing some of the CO2 in the atmosphere, more in the cold waters
of the Arctic and Antarctic than in the tropics, and this is producing ocean acidification, global
warming's terrible twin.

Sadly when the oceans become more acidic, as is now happening, the natural carbon cycle is
disrupted and some of the tiny phytoplankton that form the basis of the ocean food chain are starting to
show damage.

Sudden cold spells as happened in the USA, can give a false sense of security and we may take
refuge in the idea that global warming has stopped but that is not the case and the average global
temperature continues to rise.

The changes that are happening to our climate will become clearer as time progresses but the
prognosis will not be improved unless we stop burning fossil fuels and start to develop a sustainable
society.

In the meantime we should recognise that we are headed for dangerous climate change and we have
only a small chance of avoiding it. We need to take action now.

Jo Lewis

Page247of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Akolele

Mayor's say"Have your say and feast your eyes

IF YOU are a resident of Tuross Head or you have an interest in this area, I encourage you to help
Council plan how to manage and maintain some of the open space and outdoor furniture that is there
for everyone to enjoy.

Council is currently looking for feedback from the community on the draft Tuross Head Open Space
Facilities Maintenance Plan. When the plan is finalised, it will be used to maintain and replace items
such as seats, picnic tables, shelters and barbeque facilities in Tuross Head.

You can have your say on the draft by letting us know what type of outdoor furniture you would like to
see and where it should be placed. The draft plan and how you can provide feedback are on Council's
website and on exhibition at our libraries and the customer service centre in Moruya until 28 February
2014.

A few weeks ago I was invited to an interesting international networking opportunity in Canberra that
welcomed the Shanxi Province Delegation from China.

The event was organised by the Australia International Trade Association and Associates who cite
their aim as building a bridge between Australia, China and the rest of the world.
The Chinese delegates included the deputy governor and senior government officials in the areas of
tourism and agriculture. Along with Mayor Bill Taylor from Bega Valley Council, I was delighted to be
able to talk about what the South Coast has to offer as a tourist destination and our growing reputation
as a food producing area, particularly in the oyster and dairy industries.
It was useful to hear some ideas on how we could promote the south cast to the Chinese traveller and
what they may be looking for.

I also caught up with Richard Colbeck, the Australian Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister for
Agriculture. We spoke about the local fishing industry and the development of the Australian Oyster
Coast project.

The Australian Oyster Coast project will be launched at the Narooma Oyster Festival on April 6.

If you"re looking for some creative inspiration this week, I can highly recommend a visit to our local
libraries in Batemans Bay, Moruya and Narooma.

The libraries will host three artists" floor talks where you can meet and chat with some amazing local
artists and gain a better understanding of who they are, and what their works means.

The artists" works are on display in the libraries throughout the month. For details of what's on at the
libraries visit www.esc.nsw.gov.au

I am always pleased to hear from residents about issues you believe Council can help with. You can
contact me via email to mayor@eurocoast.nsw.gov.au or on my mobile phone, 0418 279 215.

Cr Lindsay Brown

Mayor of Eurobodalla Shire

A challenging read on migration

READERS of non-fiction books in Eurobodalla are advised that my hard-hitting book on Australian
society "Musings at Death's Door" (recommended by the US Review of Books) is now held as a
reference book (not for borrowing) at Moruya Library.

However, a copy is available, together with four of my other five books, at the Narooma Library.

The sixth book, my memoir, "The Dance of Destiny," is lodged in the Nowra Library, because of the
expected wider readership.

All my books were endorsed pre-publication by senior academics and other notables, and reviewed
favourably post-publication.

The US Review of Books has recommended four of my books in all, and given a favourable review of
my book of fiction "Pithy Perspectives".

Page248of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.This is a bicultural collage of short, short stories: ranging from funny to weird/wacky to
uplifting/dramatic.

"Destiny Will Out", "The Karma of Culture" and "Hidden Footprints of Unity" relate to all aspects of
migration, based on my experiences as a settler (commencing with the White Australia era) and as
director of policy in the then Department of Immigration & Ethnic Affairs on ethnic affairs,
multiculturalism, citizenship, and settlement support.

The department has thanked me for my "valuable books".

The books are now available as ebooks for $US2.99 at Amazon Kindle Direct and Smashwords (with
my royalty to be donated directly to Medecins Sans Frontieres (Doctors without Borders).

My five non-fiction books uphold my belief that Australia needs unity from ethno-cultural diversity (not
tribal enclaves, or dual systems of law). The books were written as if spoken, and are thereby
readable. Do support a worthwhile charity, while having a challenging read.

Raja Arasa Ratnam

Narooma

Wonderful Seaside Fair

WHAT a wonderful three days we have enjoyed! We went to the South Coast to the Bermagui Seaside
Fair. It was a wonderful, happy, colourful, fun, community event. The parade of beautifully decorated
floats, community groups from pre-schools, thruough to U3A, CWA, Scouts, etc., dressed in a variety
of costumes was wonderful.

It must have taken a lot of dedication and hard work to produce the quality of entries we saw.

There were many large outdoor umbrellas that had been hand painted, and they were auctioned to
raise money toward a skate park.

The market stalls were varied, colourful and attended by happy, welcoming people. This is a
community event that many towns and cities should have a look at, as it was so well organised and a
true welcoming community spirit shone through clearly. Congratulations to all involved.

Noeline and Rex Rowlands

Goulburn

End inhumane treatment

JOHN Cowan's "A different kind of solution" (NN March 5) suggesting how we need to treat asylum
seekers, his suggestions would give them the opportunity to find peace and a decent life instead of the
added pain of post-traumatic stress, grief, mental illness and anger at being locked away all due to our
inhuman treatment and policies.

I for one want to be able to look myself in the mirror and say that we did our best to make these
courageous people feel welcome.

Carolyn Watt

Narooma

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC
i5020008 : Parking Lot Construction | i502 : Heavy Construction | iconst : Construction | icre : Real
Estate/Construction | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying
gclimt : Climate Change | nedc : Commentaries/Opinions | gcat : Political/General News | genv :
Environmental News | gglobe : Global/World Issues | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter
austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FNARON0020140313ea3c0000d

Page249of289©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.