Conference builds stronger China links

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

EARLY GENERAL NEWS
Conference builds stronger China links

JACINTA BOLSENBROEK
769 words
3 April 2014
Farm Weekly
FFARMW
16
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

REPRESENTATIVES from China will visit Perth to strengthen business ties in agriculture next
week.
The Perth-based Western Australia-China Agribusiness Co-operation Conference will provide
businesses with the opportunity to network and enhance relationships across the agriculture and
food industry.

Department of Agriculture and Food director general Rob Delane said the conference's key aim was
to attract strategic investors, with access to money and markets, who could inject capital into growing
the supply chain to support the production levels required to meet growing market demand.
"We hope to get a better...and a stronger understanding, because relationships are critical in China,''
Mr Delane said.
"At the end of the day it's about business match-making. "We will be facilitating linking Chinese
investors, with specific or general interest, up with WA businesses or professional service providers
who may be able to help link them up to that opportunity in WA."
Chinese representative Jeff Ji, senior product manager at China Minsheng Banking Corporation,
told Farm Weekly, Australia had a good reputation for its high quality food and dairy among Chinese
consumers, however WA was not as well known to Chinese citizens.

"The conference will help these organisations (banks and corporations) to better understand the
business opportunities and how business operates in WA," Mr Ji said.
"This conference opens a gate to many Chinese companies and financial institutions and is a good
opportunity for us to better understand Australian agribusiness as well as to let the market know our
capability."
WA has an export-based agriculture and food sector, with about 80 per cent of production sold to
international markets, including China.

There is a strong interest in a range of areas which will be explored during this conference, including
beef, wine and dairy.

Other focus areas will include grains, fodder such as cereal hay, and horticulture, premium food and
fisheries.
China ranked as one of WA's biggest markets for agriculture and food products in 2012-13, with
exports valued at more than $1 billion, led by wool, barley, canola, wheat, sheep skins and wine.
On his visit, Mr Ji hopes to build business relationships, understand how WA businesses operate
and explore potential opportunities in Perth.

Page137of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."We hope to strengthen the relationship with the existing clients by providing them with more
professional service and deal opportunities," Mr Ji said.
Mr Ji said he thought Australia represented a great opportunity for China as Chinese consumers
were now willing to pay more for better quality product, but the supply of high quality food and dairy
products was limited.
"Food safety is always an issue to Chinese consumers," Mr Ji said.
"The local media has reported many food safety problems (in China), which caused great concerns
to the community.
"With the increase of domestic disposable income and market globalisation, Chinese consumers
have better information and access to foreign products and have started to pay more attention to
food quality.
"Australia is well known for its good environment, protein and dairy products, which are always
attractive to Chinese consumers."

The DAFWA is welcoming the foreign investment opportunity.

Mr Delane said it would have been magnificent if more large-scale investment could come from
within WA or Australia.

"But that seems unlikely for this scale," Mr Delane said.

"So where better for it to come from, than from the market destination where those investors are
responding to the population and wealth group in those communities and are interested in building
food supply chains from within WA.

"How can you grow from a small episodic supplier, to one that can be a reliable supplier of much high
quantity? You are going to need investment from somewhere.

"There is a huge marketing opportunity in Asia and the Middle East, so we have to include our focus
on China to grow together."

About 300 delegates registered for the April 9 event, including about 170 delegates representing
government and business interests in China.
The Chinese delegates come from the provinces of Zhejiang, Shanghai and Jiangsu, Shandong,
Liaoning, Jiangxi, Henan, Anhui and Shaanxi.

The conference is hosted by DAFWA and supported by the InvestWest Agribusiness Alliance, the
Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Australia-China Business Council, the Department of
State Development, the Department of Regional Development and the Chinese Consulate.
Delegates will hear from industry leaders on topics such as global trends in agribusiness, Chinese
investment in WA, infrastructure projects and WA agribusiness investment opportunities.

Customised, industry-specific field visits will be offered on April 10-11.

IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

i01001 : Farming | i0 : Agriculture
c315 : Conferences/Exhibitions | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging
Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FFARMW0020140402ea4300012

Page138of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.