Reserve Bank of Australia Nov minutes show concern over AUD strength

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Reserve Bank of Australia Nov minutes show concern over AUD strength

2,807 words
18 November 2014
Investing.com
INVEN
English
Copyright 2014. Fusion Media Limited. All Rights Reserved.

Investing.com -

Investing.com - The following if the full-text statement on the Reserve Bank of Australia's release
Tuesday of minutes from its Nov. 4 board meeting.

Minutes of the Monetary Policy Meeting of the Reserve Bank Board

Sydney - 4 November 2014

Members Present

Glenn Stevens (Governor and Chair), Philip Lowe (Deputy Governor), John Akehurst, Roger Corbett AO,
John Edwards, Kathryn Fagg, Martin Parkinson PSM (Secretary to the Treasury), Heather Ridout AO,
Catherine Tanna

Others Present

Guy Debelle (Assistant Governor, Financial Markets), Christopher Kent (Assistant Governor, Economic),
Alexandra Heath (Head, Economic Analysis Department), Anthony Dickman (Secretary), Peter Stebbing
(Deputy Secretary)

International Economic Conditions

Members began their discussion of the world economy with the observation that the growth of Australia's
major trading partners had been a little below its long-run average pace in the June quarter, mainly as a
result of the sharp decline in Japanese GDP. More recent data had suggested a pick-up in trading partner
growth in the September quarter. Commodity prices had declined further over the past month, with oil
prices recording a noticeable fall.
Chinese GDP growth had been steady in the September quarter and close to the authorities' target of 7.5
per cent for 2014. Members noted that the composition of growth had continued to shift in a manner
consistent with China's transition to a more balanced growth model; investment growth had eased further
while consumption growth had been steady, and the service sector had continued to record slightly
stronger growth than the manufacturing sector. Members observed that housing prices in China had
fallen further in September and that the authorities had introduced targeted policies to ease financing
conditions for home purchases and property development. Overall growth in total social financing had
eased further following an earlier tightening of policies intended to put financing on a more sustainable
footing.

In Japan, activity looked to have increased modestly in the September quarter, following a sharp decline
in output after the consumption tax increase in April, with indicators suggesting that consumption had
picked up in recent months. Members judged that it was too early to assess the impact of temporary fiscal
measures designed to support growth following the consumption tax increase. Overall, indicators of
business conditions had improved and the labour market had continued to tighten. Output in the rest of
east Asia appeared to have been growing at around its average pace of recent years, supported by
stronger domestic demand.

The US economy had grown at an above-trend pace in the September quarter. Business investment had
picked up noticeably and the unemployment rate had declined further, although other measures of labour

Page119of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.market slack had not improved to the same extent. After picking up earlier in 2014, inflation was about ½
percentage point below the 2 per cent goal set by the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC).
Meanwhile, wage growth had increased over the past six months.

The recovery in the euro area remained fragile. Despite declining a little over 2014, the unemployment
rate remained high and inflation continued to be well below the target of the European Central Bank
(ECB) of close to, but below, 2 per cent.

Commodity prices overall had declined slightly over the past month. An ongoing expansion in global
supply and easing of growth in Chinese steel production had put further downward pressure on iron ore
prices of late, while rising oil supplies - particularly from the United States - had led to a sharp fall in oil
prices. Members observed that this would support output growth in energy-importing economies.

Domestic Economic Conditions

At the start of their review of the domestic economy and the economic outlook, members noted that the
data available for the September quarter indicated that activity had grown a little below average, with the
composition of growth remaining similar to that seen in the first half of 2014.

Resource exports had continued to grow strongly in the September quarter and were expected to be
boosted over the next year or so by a further expansion in iron ore production, despite much lower
prices, and a gradual ramping up of production of liquefied natural gas. Coal production was expected to
be sustained at a high level even though a few smaller, higher-cost mines had closed in response to
lower coal prices. Mining investment was expected to continue to decline for some time, with current
projects being completed and only a few new projects under consideration.

Low interest rates and ongoing population growth were expected to continue to support growth in both
housing activity and the established housing market. Growth in dwelling investment had remained strong
and this was expected to continue in coming quarters, based on building approvals and other
forward-looking indicators. Housing price growth had slowed from the rapid pace of late last year, but was
still high in Sydney and Melbourne. While growth in housing credit for owner-occupiers was only a little
above that of income, credit extended to investors had continued to grow at a noticeably faster rate.

Members noted that the strength in the housing market was expected to give some support to household
consumption in the near term as rising housing valuations allowed some credit-constrained home owners
to bring forward their consumption. The pick-up in retail sales in the September quarter and stronger
growth in retail sales in those states with more rapid housing price growth was consistent with this view.
However, members also observed that expectations of low income growth would be likely to weigh
somewhat on consumption, which was expected to continue growing at a moderate pace in the near term
before strengthening over 2016.

Survey measures of business confidence and conditions, along with measures of capacity utilisation, had
been close to or above average long-run levels. However, non-mining business investment had
remained subdued and liaison continued to suggest reluctance on the part of firms to undertake
significant new investment projects until they experienced a sustained improvement in demand.
Notwithstanding a substantial pipeline of non-residential building work yet to be done, non-residential
building approvals had declined over the past year. Fiscal consolidation at all levels of government was
also expected to weigh on aggregate growth in the period ahead.

The forces underpinning the outlook for domestic activity were much as they had been for some time.
Mining investment was expected to decline sharply and resource exports were expected to grow strongly
as the transition from the investment to the production phase of the mining boom continued. Members
noted that non-mining business investment was not being impeded by the price and availability of
finance. Overall, the forecast for output had not materially changed. GDP growth was still expected to be
below trend over 2014/15, before gradually picking up to an above-trend pace towards the end of 2016.

Conditions in the labour market had remained subdued, with members noting that the latest vintage of the
labour force survey data, which was released by the ABS during the meeting, showed a small rise in the
unemployment rate over the previous six months and employment growth somewhat below the pace of
population growth. Forward-looking indicators were at levels consistent with modest employment growth
in coming months.

Inflation had declined in the September quarter, after earlier strong results. The year-ended rate of
consumer price inflation declined to 2.3 per cent from 3.0 per cent previously. While acknowledging that
the removal of the price on carbon had been an important factor behind lower CPI inflation in the
September quarter, members noted that the effect on underlying inflation, which had declined to ½ per
cent in the quarter and 2½ per cent over the past year, was much smaller.

Page120of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Members observed that the fall recorded in tradables inflation in the September quarter had been a little
surprising, given that it had been increasing in year-ended terms over the previous year, reflecting the
depreciation of the exchange rate over the preceding 18 months or so. But they also noted that tradables
inflation was quite volatile on a quarterly basis and that some of the most recent fall could be attributed to
discounting of clothing and footwear prices to clear winter stocks built up during the period of unusually
warm winter weather. Non-tradables inflation over the past year remained below its average over recent
years and was little changed from the June quarter, abstracting from the effect of the repeal of the carbon
price on utility prices. It was clear that lower wage growth had flowed through to the prices of many
services, especially market services, while inflation in new dwelling costs had increased, consistent with
the strength of activity in the housing market.

The outlook for inflation had been revised up slightly in response to the depreciation of the exchange rate
during October. The cumulative effect of the exchange rate depreciation since early 2013 was expected
to add a little under ½ percentage point to underlying inflation in each year over the forecast period.
Nevertheless, domestic inflationary pressures were generally expected to remain subdued given spare
capacity in labour and product markets. As a result, underlying inflation was expected to remain
consistent with the target over the forecast period.

Financial Markets

Members observed that volatility in global financial markets had increased through October, with market
positioning and dynamics amplifying the effect of increased investor concern about the outlook for global
growth.
As expected, the US Federal Reserve ended its asset purchase program at its October meeting. The
Federal Reserve's balance sheet stood at US$4.5 trillion, having increased by US$1.7 trillion during the
third round of quantitative easing. Market pricing implied that the first increase in the federal funds rate
would occur around October 2015, even though recent commentary by FOMC members suggested that
mid 2015 was the most likely period when official rates would start to be increased. In contrast, market
pricing suggested that expectations for future policy rate increases by the Bank of England and the
Reserve Bank of New Zealand had been pushed further out over the course of the past month.

The Bank of Japan (BoJ) surprised financial markets late in October with its announcement of a further
easing in monetary policy. Japanese equity prices in particular had risen strongly following the
announcement, in which the BoJ had outlined plans to make additional asset purchases to increase the
money base further, with monthly purchases of Japanese government bonds and other assets expected
to be around US$60 billion. Members noted that this compared with a previous peak in monthly asset
purchases by the Federal Reserve of around US$85 billion. The BoJ had stressed that the present
move had been pre-emptive and sought to ensure that the previous modest rise in inflation expectations
in the Japanese economy did not dissipate. At the same time, Japan's Government Pension Investment
Fund (GPIF) announced a reduction in its target allocation for domestic bonds, together with significant
increases in the corresponding target allocations to domestic and foreign equities and foreign bonds.
Members noted the potential for these policy actions to increase the size of capital outflows from Japan in
pursuit of more attractive yields on various assets in Australia (along with other destinations). Such flows
could hold the Australian dollar at a higher level than economic fundamentals would imply.
The ECB commenced its covered bond purchase program in October. Members noted that after
declining over the past couple of years by around 1 trillion, the ECB's balance sheet was subsequently
expected to increase to around its earlier peak, through the ECB undertaking a combination of asset
purchases and targeted longer-term refinancing operations. Italian and Spanish banks remained the
largest borrowers of funds from the ECB - accounting for around two-thirds of outstanding lending.
Members noted that the ECB's assessment of the asset quality of the euro area banking system had
been released during the month.

US sovereign bond yields fell a little further over October, notwithstanding considerable variation within
the month. On 15 October, yields traded over the widest intraday range (37 basis points) since 2011, as
leveraged participants in this market unwound positions in other financial instruments. Australian bond
yields also declined over the past month, generally tracking the moves in US Treasuries.

Share prices in the advanced economies fell sharply early in October, reflecting concerns about global
growth, but had generally recovered those losses by the end of the month, with share prices in both the
United States and Japan reaching multi-year highs. Members noted that Japanese equity prices had
risen by nearly 5 per cent on the last day of October in response to the unexpected further easing in the
BoJ's monetary policy. Australian equity prices had also risen over the past month, outperforming most
other markets, with stocks in the finance sector rebounding in particular.

Page121of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The major movement in foreign exchange markets had been the depreciation of the Japanese yen
following the policy announcement by the BoJ and the announcement by GPIF. Other exchange rates
had been little changed, with the notable exception of the Russian rouble, which depreciated by a further
9 per cent against the US dollar over the month to be more than 20 per cent below its recent peak in late
June. While the Russian central bank had undertaken significant intervention to limit the exchange rate
depreciation, its foreign currency reserves remained sizeable.

After having depreciated noticeably in September, the Australian dollar was little changed against the US
dollar in October. The Australian dollar had appreciated by 4 per cent against the Japanese yen, which
has a 13 per cent weight in the trade-weighted basket. In trade-weighted terms, the Australian dollar
ended the month higher than in January 2014, notwithstanding the significant declines in key commodity
prices since then.

Members concluded their discussion of financial markets with the observation that Australian lending
rates on the stock of outstanding housing and business loans were continuing to edge lower, while
domestic financial markets expected the Board to leave the cash rate unchanged at the November
meeting.

Considerations for Monetary Policy

The outlook for the global economy had been little changed, with the growth of Australia's major trading
partners forecast to be a little above average in 2014 and 2015. While members judged that the risks for
the global economy were roughly balanced, they acknowledged that there was considerable uncertainty
related to the outlook for the Chinese property market and the broader implications for the Chinese
economy. Commodity prices had declined noticeably over the year to date, although they remained high
in historical terms.

Domestically, economic activity over recent months appeared to have continued growing at a moderate
pace. The forces underpinning the outlook for domestic activity were much as they had been for some
time and the forecasts had not materially changed; GDP growth was still expected to be below trend over
2014/15, before gradually picking up to an above-trend pace towards the end of 2016.

Very low interest rates continued to support activity in the housing market and this was expected to spur
activity in other areas of the economy through the usual channels. Members noted that growth in housing
credit extended to investors in housing had continued to grow at a noticeably faster rate than credit to
owner-occupiers.

Labour market conditions had remained subdued and it was likely to be some time before unemployment
declined consistently. Spare capacity in labour and product markets was likely to continue to limit
domestic inflationary pressures, ensuring that the inflation outlook remained consistent with the target
notwithstanding some temporary upward pressure from the depreciation of the exchange rate since early
in 2013. Despite the recent depreciation of the exchange rate, the Australian dollar remained above most
estimates of its fundamental value, particularly given the further declines in key commodity prices over
the course of the year to date. As a result, the exchange rate was offering less assistance than would
normally be expected in achieving balanced growth in the economy.
In their assessment and given the information available, the Board judged that the current
accommodative stance of monetary policy continued to be appropriate to foster sustainable growth in
demand and inflation outcomes consistent with the target over the period ahead. Members considered
that the most prudent course was likely to be a period of stability in interest rates.

The Decision
The Board decided to leave the cash rate unchanged at 2.5 per cent.

<a href="http://www.Investing.com" rel="nofollow" title="Investing.com">Investing.com offers an extensive
set of professional tools for the financial markets.

Read more News on Investing.com and download the new Investing.com apps for Android and iOS!

CO
rbkaus : Reserve Bank of Australia
NS
e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News
RE
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
IPD
Economic Indicators
PUB Fusion Media Limited

Page122of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AN

Document INVEN00020141118eabi000b6

Page123of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.