Former Xstrata head makes play for BHP Billiton’s nickel; The bid by X2 Resources, the company headed by Mick Davis, was reportedly too low

SE
HD

BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Former Xstrata head makes play for BHP Billiton’s nickel; The bid by X2 Resources, the
company headed by Mick Davis, was reportedly too low
RACHELLE YOUNGLAI
475 words
20 June 2014
The Globe and Mail (Breaking News)
GMBN
English
©2014 The Globe and Mail Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Mining magnate Mick Davis made an initial bid for BHP Billiton Ltd.’s nickel assets in Australia, but
his offer was rejected as too low, a person familiar with the matter said.
X2 Resources, Mr. Davis’ privately held company, has been looking for assets to start building itself
into a medium-sized miner, and has raised up to $3.75-billion for acquisitions.

It is unknown whether Mr. Davis will increase his bid.
Before X2 , Mr. Davis ran Xstrata Plc, a global mining giant. Xstrata grew by buying out its rivals,
including Canadian nickel producer Falconbridge, before it was taken over by Swiss-based
Glencore in 2013.
X2 , whose team helped create Xstrata, is one of many private equity firms looking for acquisitions
amid the downturn in the commodity industry.

Its strategy is to acquire unwanted assets from the senior miners, which have been re-evaluating
their businesses and zeroing in on core operations in order to deal with lower metals prices.

According to analysts, BHP Billiton’s nickel assets, known as Nickel West, contributed just 2.7 per
cent of the miner’s overall revenue.

The Anglo-Australian miner has been trying to sell its nickel business for more than two years,
another person familiar with the matter said. In May, the company announced that it was reviewing
its options regarding its nickel operation, including the outright sale.
China Minmetals Corp., a state-owned miner which was part of a consortium that bought the Las
Bambas copper project from Glencore for nearly $6-billion, also looked at the assets, the source
said.
X2 and BHP Billiton declined comment. China Minmetals could not immediately be reached for
comment.
The announcement of the potential sale comes as nickel prices have jumped 40 per cent this year
due to Indonesia’s ban on raw-material exports. That in turn has helped boost the stocks of nickel
producers.

But analysts said there were issues with Nickel West.

“The main issue facing Nickel West is the long term availability of feed to keep the smelter and
refinery operating at capacity,” said Andrew Mitchell, principal nickel analyst at Wood Mackenzie, a
resources-focused research firm. “There needs to be investment in either a new mine or a long
term contract entered into with a third party concentrate producer in order to maintain output,” he
said.

Nickel West’s assets include three mines, concentrators, a refinery and smelter.

Page175of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Investec analysts value BHP Billiton’s nickel business at $700-million.
Mr. Davis is very familiar with the Australian mining landscape and the company’s assets, having
served as Billiton’s chief financial officer before it merged with BHP in 2001.

Globe and Mail Update

CO
IN

NS

RE
IPD
PUB
AN

bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | march : Glencore PLC | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2114 : Copper Ore/Nickel Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs :
Business/Consumer Services
c1521 : Analyst Comments/Recommendations | c15 : Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections |
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E
Exclusion Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Mick
The Globe and Mail Inc.
Document GMBN000020140620ea6k0008f

Page176of295©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.