Coal, food export the big winners

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Coal, food export the big winners

Paul Gilder
426 words
18 November 2014
Daily Telegraph
DAITEL
Telegraph
42
English
Copyright 2014 News Ltd. All Rights Reserved

TRADE
EXPORTERS of dairy, meat and seafood and coal miners are the major winners after Australia signed
an historic free trade agreement with its biggest trading partner China.

The deal, estimated to be worth at least $18 billion over the next decade, will see import tariffs either
scrapped upon its ratification or gradually phased out on 95 per cent of Australian goods, providing a
fillip for the nation’s primary industries.
Coming after nearly a decade of intense negotiations, the breakthrough with China coincided with
Chinese president Xi Jinping’s speech to parliament yesterday and marked the third free trade
agreement inked by Trade Minister Andrew Robb this year following accords with South Korea and
Japan.
Tariffs on dairy products will be phased out over nine years, while a 15 per cent impost to contribute to
the likely spike in demand for baby formula will be gradually lifted within four years.
This is similar to the tariff reduction scheme China signed with New Zealand six years ago which
sparked a fivefold increase in the value of Kiwi dairy exports to China during that time. Tariffs on beef,
presently between 12 and 25 per cent, will be gone within nine years, and a year earlier for lamb
exports, presently at 23 per cent. Seafood will be tariff-free by 2018.
China’s acknowledgment for greater access to energy sources will aid local coal miners, who will cash
in on the immediate removal of the 3 per cent impost on coking coal.

A 6 per cent tariff on thermal coal will be phased out over the next two years. Treasurer Joe Hockey
said Australians would benefit from cheaper imported goods, such as televisions, and there are
“immense” opportunities for service exporters.

“They want what we have in terms of our ability to provide financial services, healthcare services and
aged care providers,” Mr Hockey said.
A significant facet of the deal will allow private Chinese companies to buy Australian assets of up to
$1.08 billion before those transactions require Foreign Investment Review Board approval. The move
puts those businesses on a par with their US and New Zealand counterparts.
A decision to extend that offer to state-owned Chinese enterprises has been shelved, as has
concession from China on imports of Australian sugar, rice, wheat and cotton.Business Council of
Australia chief Jennifer Westacott said the agreement would maximise Australia’s comparative
advantages in hi-tech manufacturing and services, which accounts for 80 per cent of the Australian
economy.

Page176of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

RE

PUB
AN

gtrade : Tariffs/Trade Barriers | e512 : Physical Trade | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat :
Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gdip : International Relations | gpir :
Politics/International Relations
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document DAITEL0020141117eabi0002z

Page177of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.