Media Release: Aman Group

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Media Release: Aman Group

556 words
2 May 2014
AAP MediaNet Press Releases
AAPMPR
English
© 2014 Australian Associated Press Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved

AAPMEDIA RELEASE PR56651 Aman Group Announces Leadership Changes

SINGAPORE, May 2, 2014 /PRNewswire-AsiaNet/ --

Aman Group, the holding company of the international luxury resort collection Amanresorts, announces
that its visionary founder, Adrian Zecha, has decided to step down from his position as Chairman and
CEO.

Johan Eliasch, a global business leader with extensive brand-building expertise, has been appointed
Chairman of the Aman Group and Vladislav Doronin, a world-class developer of high-end residential and
commercial properties and the lead investor, has been appointed CEO.

"We are grateful for Adrian Zecha's outstanding achievements and we are committed to extending his
legacy to build on Amanresorts' foundation as a luxury global resort brand," Johan Eliasch said. "As
someone who is very familiar with the distinctive Aman experience, I am excited to take on this role as
Chairman."

The Group's new CEO, Vladislav Doronin said, "The Aman Group's philosophy is to immerse guests in a
unique and personal experience. We intend to preserve the spirit of Aman while growing the brand
through future strategic development opportunities including exotic locations for which the brand is
well-known as well as into major metropolitan destinations. As lead investor and CEO, I am dedicated to
ensuring that the organization has the necessary resources to sustain and enhance its position as an
industry pioneer. The future holds great promise for this iconic brand."
Plans are in progress with the new management team to invest in the company's existing infrastructure
and capabilities to support the passionate Aman team in facilitating the consistent level of excellence
that guides the evolution of the brand.

About Aman

Founded in 1988, Aman Group operates 26 luxury resort properties under the Aman brand in 18
countries. Each of its one-of-a-kind properties features locally-sourced materials, reflecting the resort's
natural surroundings and the traditions of local cultures in Thailand, Bhutan, Cambodia, China, France,
Greece, India, Indonesia, Italy, Laos, Montenegro, Morocco, Philippines, Sri Lanka, Turkey, Turks &
Caicos Islands, USA, and Vietnam.

About Johan Eliasch

Johan Eliasch is the Chairman and CEO of Head N.V., the global sporting goods group, and is the
former Special Representative of the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom. He is Chairman of Equity
Partners, Cool Earth, and London Films and a Non-Executive Director of CV Starr Underwriting Agents.
He is the President of Global Strategy Forum, a trustee of Kew Foundation, a member of the Mayors of
London's and Rome's Business Advisory Councils and an advisory board member of the Centre for
Social Justice.

About Vladislav Doronin

Vladislav Doronin is a world-class property developer who is the Chairman and Founder of Capital
Group, which he started 21 years ago and built into one of the most successful property development

Page158of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.companies in Russia. Capital Group's portfolio comprises over 70 major projects with a total area of over
70 million square feet or 7 million square meters, including some of the most significant buildings in
present-day Moscow: business centers, hotels, residential, retail and mixed-use complexes.

Contacts:

Aman Group

Carolyn Turnbull

65-6419-3838

cturnbull@amanresorts.com
Kekst and Company

Lissa Perlman

1-212-521-4830

lissa-perlman@kekst.com

Todd Fogarty

1-212-521-4854

todd-fogarty@kekst.com

SOURCE: Aman Group

NS
RE
PUB
AN

ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | npress : Press Releases | ncat : Content Types
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Australian Associated Press Pty Ltd
Document AAPMPR0020140502ea52000dy

Page159of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.