JBS snags Primo for $1.45b

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
JBS snags Primo for $1.45b

TakeoverTim Binsted
553 words
22 November 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
35
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Another iconic Australian food company has fallen into foreign hands with Brazilian food giant JBS's
$1.45 billion takeover of ham, bacon and smallgoods producer Primo Smallgoods.

For JBS, which is Australia's biggest meat packer, marketer and exporter and the world's largest
processor of protein, Primo is a move away from commodity meats into high-value branded products,
an expansion into Australian pig meats and a launching pad to export protein to Asia.

"They [JBS] are not a branded company and our products are virtually all brands," Primo chief
executive Paul Hitchcock said. "They are a natural owner of this business . . . and will be valuable in
growing our exports. They open doors that we didn't previously have available."

Mr Hitchcock, a former Goodman Fielder and Corporate Express executive, became Primo chief
executive in August when founder Paul Lederer and his private equity backers Affinity were ready to
cash out. Primo is a recent target for JBS and the deal was struck in months.

A Hungarian immigrant, Mr Lederer owns the Western Sydney Wanderers football club and founded
Primo in 1985. He sold 70.1 per cent of the company to Affinity in October 2011. Primo's enterprise
value then was $740 million.
With Affinity's backing Primo debt-funded a $200 million food plant in Brisbane, acquired New
Zealand's largest bacon and ham producer Beehive and opened an office in Shanghai.
Mr Hitchcock said it is early days for the Primo brand in Asia but its key markets include Korea, Hong
Kong, Singapore and China. It is understood Primo will make approximately $150 million in earnings
before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation this year. Factoring in about $30 million of
synergies, the JBS deal represents a multiple of about eight times earnings. Of Primo's $1.6 billion of
revenue, about $130 million is export sales. JBS wants to leverage its global sales and distribution
network to grow exports.
"Primo's strong brand and portfolio of high-quality smallgoods products, when coupled with JBS's
global customer base, will allow us to take high-quality Australian value-added products to the
international market," JBS Australia chief executive Brent Eastwood said.

The deal is another big one for JBS adviser Rothschild. Sam Prentice's team have had several
high-profile deals this year, such as Saputo's acquisition of Warrnambool Cheese and Woolworths '
David Jones takeover.

Rothschild brought JBS to Australia with the acquisition of Swift and its subsidiary Australian Meat
Holdings for about $US1.4 billion in 2007. JBS then built out its Australian footprint, buying Tasman
Group, Rockdale Beef, Tatiara Meat Company and most recently Andrews Meat.
JBS and Mr Hitchcock said there will be no big job cuts or restructuring, it will be business as usual for
Primo's brands, suppliers and 3000 employees.

Page205of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.JBS must now negotiate with the Foreign Investment Review Board and the Australian Competition
and Consumer Commission to conclude the deal, which is being funded by a mix of cash and debt.
The deal comes amid a flurry of offshore interest in Australian food and agriculture businesses.

Key points For JBS, Primo is a move into high-value branded products. Primo's key markets include
Korea, Hong Kong, Singapore and China.

CO
IN

RE
PUB
AN

fribol : Grupo JBS SA
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i412 : Animal Slaughtering/Processing | i4122 : Meat Processing | icnp
: Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141121eabm0000j

Page206of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.