Uranium fall dents Olympic outlook

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Uranium fall dents Olympic outlook

BARRY FITZGERALD, COMMODITIES
1,134 words
27 May 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
19
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

BHP Billiton’s recasting of its expansion plans for its Olympic Dam copper/uranium mine in South
Australia’s outback have been served up a new challenge — the collapse in uranium prices.
Spot uranium has fallen 30 per cent in the past 12 months to $US28.15 a pound, plunging most of
the world’s uranium-only mines into losses. More telling has been the steady decline from the record
price of $US137 a pound in mid-2007, due in part to the fall in demand in the wake of Japan’s
Fukushima nuclear disaster in 2011.

BHP dropped plans for a big-bang expansion of Olympic Dam in mid-2012, blaming the $30 billion
cancellation on the over-heated resources sector and the country’s high-cost environment. Concerns
about uranium’s outlook post-Fukushima was also a factor.
At the current depressed prices for uranium, the nuclear fuel represents less than 20 per cent of
Olympic Dam’s revenue stream. But plug in last year’s average industry contract price for uranium of
$US57 a pound (most uranium is sold on a contract basis rather than spot), and the fuel’s revenue
contribution soars to 30 per cent, substantially enhancing project economics in the process.

When it shelved the big-bang expansion plan, BHP said it would investigate a less capital-intensive
design, and one that drew on new mining and processing technologies to improve the economics of
the project.

BHP chief executive Andrew Mackenzie also undertook in September to say more about plans for the
expansion “within about a year’’. While that timing is almost up, BHP’s considerations of what the price
slump means for the future of what is the world’s biggest uranium deposit makes its planning for an
expansion all the more complex.

Like the rest of the industry, BHP will be pinning its hopes on the restart of nuclear power plants in
Japan, and the forecast surge in China’s nuclear power industry, to eventually produce more
sustainable prices — in the context of being able to make a profit from the material at any rate.
John Borshoff, chief executive of the ASX-listed African uranium producer Paladin, is Australia’s
resident bull on the outlook for uranium, even if one of Paladin’s mines is being put on care and
maintenance during the price storm.
Mr Borshoff said it would be wrong to lose sight of the emerging supply shortfall in uranium due to the
absence of supporting “incentive’’ prices needed to underpin new developments.
Mr Borshoff told investors on Paladin’s March quarter conference call that according to the company’s
own analysis, a supply shortfall of 31 million pounds could appear in 2020. “It can be strongly argued
that this shortfall is now almost certainly structurally embedded in the production growth capability or,
more correctly, incapability. Until this is realised, there is real danger ahead,’’ Mr Borshoff said.

Continued on Page 20 Continued from Page 19 He said a widening supply gap was set to come into
effect from 2016-2017, with uranium prices moving ahead in anticipation in late 2014-2015.

Page217of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mr Borshoff’s optimism is largely shared by Tim Gitzel, the chief executive of Canadian uranium giant
Cameco, which owns two of the world’s biggest undeveloped uranium deposits in Western Australia —
Yeelirrie and Kintyre.

But Mr Gitzel is more guarded.

“For the near to medium term, demand remains discretionary while supply is performing reasonably
well and utilitie’s requirements remain well covered,’’ Mr Gitzel told analysts.
“As a result, uranium prices continue to suffer downward pressure and we do not see any reason to
expect improvement soon.’’ That means that neither Yeelirrie, acquired from BHP, and Kintyre,
acquired from Rio Tinto, are not about to be developed anytime soon.

However, Mr Gitzel shares Mr Borshoff’s optimism about the longer-term outlook. Which is just as well,
given that the 2008 acquisition of Kintyre, and the Yeelirrie acquisition in 2012, represent a
combined $US925 million ($1bn) bet that uranium will eventually work its way back to a level that
justifies their development by Cameco.

Mr Gitzel said that tentative restart of Japan’s fleet of nuclear power stations — confirmed in the recent
new energy policy — was a positive for uranium.

“We remain confident in the long-term fundamentals, which indicate a clear progression of growth.
“Today, there are 70 reactors under construction around the world representing billions of dollars of
investment and significant growth in future uranium consumption,’’ Mr Gitzel said.

Cameco estimates that more than 90 new nuclear reactors will start-up over the next 10 years, with
significantly more to follow in the following 10 years.
“Nuclear energy continues to be an integral part of the world’s energy mix because it is one of the
most important tools we have to combat climate change and to provide safe, clean, reliable and
affordable base-load energy to rapidly expanding economies,’’ Mr Gitzel said.
“So, we remain excited about the future and are prepared, as a company, to meet it head on.’’ For
battle weary investors in the uranium sector, it is a well-worn thematic. It was what drove uranium
prices to their peak in 2007. But then came a rush of new production, the additional supply that came
from the decommissioning of weapons grade material under the now completed “bombs to
ploughshares’’ program, and the hit to economic growth and electricity demand from the global
financial crisis, which got going in September 2008 with the collapse of Lehman Brothers.
Just as the case for uranium’s role in combating global warming was gaining strength after the GFC,
and prices were firming, the March 2011 Fukushima nuclear disaster set uranium on new spiral
downwards, one which has helped to take prices to the current lows.

But based on the same sort of market analysis provided by Mr Borshoff at Paladin, and Mr Gitzel at
Cameco, there is now broad agreement among analysts that the uranium price has bottomed.
Eddie Rigg, managing director of the resources specialist broking firm Argonaut, said it was not a
question of if uranium prices rebound, but when.

He said it had to be remembered that at a price of $US35 a pound and below, no one in the industry
was making money.

Given demand growth seems to be on track, Argonaut expects a $US70-a-pound price is the required
incentive price needed to ensure future demand is met.

UBS has a long-term price expectation of $US55 a pound, with a restart of Japanese nuclear reactors
a near-term catalyst.“Should we see this occur and investment in new mine supply remain low, then the
uranium price could exceed our current forecasts,’’ UBS said.

CO
IN

NS

bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i1610109 : Electric Power Generation - Nuclear | iuran : Uranium Ore Mining |
imet : Mining/Quarrying | i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i16101 : Electric Power Generation | ibasicm :
Basic Materials/Resources | ieutil : Electric Utilities | iutil : Utilities
gnuca : Nuclear Accidents | reqrmm : Suggested Reading Metals/Mining | gcat : Political/General News
| gdis : Disasters/Accidents | gmmdis : Accidents/Man-made Disasters | grisk : Risk News | redit :
Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News

Page218of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

PUB
AN

austr : Australia | jap : Japan | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | easiaz :
Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140526ea5r0005o

Page219of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.