Foreign buyer fee could raise $400m

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Foreign buyer fee could raise $400m

Jacob Greber Economics correspondent
478 words
24 September 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
3
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Hitting foreign property buyers with a modest application fee could generate more than
$400 million to fund a crackdown on illegal purchases blamed for pricing locals out of the market.

A government-dominated parliamentary committee is actively considering whether to impose fees
of as much as $1500 per purchase.

The Reserve Bank of Australia will publish its official six-monthly financial stability review on
Wednesday, which is expected to lay out official concerns about the property market.
Foreign buyers now pay nothing for applications to the Foreign Investment Review Board, which
faces criticism for failing to adequately monitor approvals as well as fielding concerns about a lack
of data sharing between it and bodies such customs and immigration.

Liberal MP Kelly O'Dwyer, who leads the inquiry due to report next month, said there had been
clear "failure of process" at the board, but that it also needed significant resources to audit
applications and enforce penalties.

"Any additional resourcing of FIRB should come directly from application fees," Ms O'Dwyer said.

"Given the importance of FIRB's rules in providing confidence to the broader Australian community
on residential property, ensuring good processing and strong recovery is essential."

Modelling by the independent Parliamentary Budget Office obtained by The Australian Financial
Review shows a fee of just $500 per successful application could generate $34.6 million over four
years.More than offset boards's costs

That would more than offset the boards's annual $4 million budget cost.

If set at the higher rate, some $106 million could flow in by 2017-18 and $412 million by 2024-25.
The budget office modelling assumes 21,000 foreigners will successfully buy properties in 2013-14,
and the fee applied to all offshore investors, including temporary residents, trusts and funds. It
would cover new, existing and off-the-plan residential property as well as land.

Momentum within the committee is understood to be building in favour of recommending such fees,
as well as measures to ensure data matching between Immigration and the FIRB.
Work is also being done on whether to hit Chinese and other offshore buyers with extra stamp
duties to ensure their participation in the market doesn't worsen housing affordability.

Ms O'Dwyer criticised the FIRB for failing to enforce restrictions on foreign buyers and for a
worrying lack of data about offshore investment. Board chairman Brian Wilson hit back on
Thursday, saying it could only do so much with the resources it had.

Page127of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Property industry groups have argued against extra fees on foreign buyers because they would
restrain residential dwelling approvals, which are at the core of the Reserve Bank's efforts to spur
economic growth.

There are also tensions between balancing community concerns over foreign buyers and the
government's goals of cutting red tape.

NS
RE
PUB
AN

ereal : Real Estate Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140923ea9o00029

Page128of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.