U.S. Stocks Sharply Lower

U.S. Stocks Sharply Lower

CLM Latest on Stocks
HD
BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

BY DAN STRUMPF AND MIN ZENG
946 words
26 September 2014
20:19
Dow Jones Top North American Equities Stories
DJTNAE
English
Copyright © 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

Stocks tumbled and bonds rallied as lingering worries about global growth and geopolitical tensions
flared up at a vulnerable time for financial markets.

The Dow Jones Industrial Average sank 264.26 points, or 1.54%, to 16945.80.

TD

Investors shunned stocks and other assets perceived to be risky, opting to park money in relatively safe
bets such as Treasurys. Concerns about global growth came to the fore this week, after China signaled
it wouldn't offer more aggressive stimulus measures and Europe's economy showed signs of further
slowdown.

There was no single driver behind Thursday's move, traders and money managers said. Rather, it
represented building unease that was exacerbated by end-quarter portfolio reshuffling and thin trading
volumes.

Nevertheless, the moves across stocks were broad. The S&P 500 fell 32.31 points, or 1.6%, to 1965.99.

The CBOE Volatility Index, the so-called fear gauge, spiked 18% to a 15.64, the highest level since early
August. The figure tracks anticipated moves in the S&P 500 index.

Shares of technology and Internet companies, which tend to be more sensitive to the growth outlook,
were among the biggest laggards. The Nasdaq Composite Index fell 88.47, or 1.9%, to 4466.75.
Weighing on the Nasdaq were Apple Inc. shares, which slid 3.5% after the company yanked an update
to its latest iPhone, iPad and iPod software.

"There's just a convergence of many negatives at once, and on a day when there's less volume," said
Tom Carter, managing director at brokerage JonesTrading. "It tends to accentuate the move."

The slide in stocks extends this week's pullback from record highs. Though the S&P 500 hit a fresh
all-time high as recently as last Thursday, the broad-market index is now off 1.9% this month. It is still up
6.4% for the year.

Much of the day's heaviest selling took place in the first hours of trading. Stocks largely steadied by
mid-day and pared some of their losses toward the end of the session.

Despite the scale of the selloff, many traders say there was no shortage of buyers willing to snap up
shares at cheaper prices. Others said much of the day's action was being driven by short-term investors
like hedge funds, rather than big mutual funds and others making long-term bets around a souring
economy.

"Most of the folks I talk to believe that this is a dip," said Joe Spinelli, head of single stock trading for the
Americas at Deutsche Bank. "This is a shorter-term, technical dislocation versus some change in the
fundamental stance."

Page12of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Traders also said thin trading volumes due to the Rosh Hashanah holiday likely exacerbated the size of
Thursday's move.

Helping drive the losses were signs of deepening tensions between Russia and Western countries,
following a report that a draft law in Russia could open the door for courts there to seize foreign assets
in Russian territory. Back-and-forth sanctions over the conflict in Ukraine has curtailed economic growth
in Europe, a major trading partner with Russia, and the report gave investors yet another reason to seek
out the perceived safety of government bonds.

The benchmark 10-year note was 16/32 higher, yielding 2.511%. The yield fell to a two-week low, down
from 3% at the start of the year. Yields fall as prices rise.

Bond prices have receded in recent weeks as the tensions in Ukraine have cooled. The Russia reports
served as a reminder to investors of that region's instability in the recent past and its potential drag on
growth in Europe.

"It is the fear trade kicking in," said Thomas Roth, executive director in the U.S. government bond
trading group at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities (USA) Inc. in New York.

The yen, a haven currency, strengthened against the dollar amid the market turbulence, although the
Japanese currency remains near six-year lows. One dollar bought 108.67 yen in late New York trading
on Thursday, down from 109.04 late Wednesday.
Gold, another safe haven, rose 0.2% to $1,221.20 an ounce.

Some of the day's move was driven by investors taking advantage of the end of the quarter to reshuffle
some bets. Some portfolio managers tweaked investments by selling stocks and riskier bonds and
moving into safer Treasurys--though potentially just temporarily, traders and analysts said. Prices of
bonds sold by lower-rated U.S. companies, known as junk bonds, fell on Thursday, extending this
month's selloff.

Many investors say they are still optimistic about the outlook for U.S. stocks due to the country's
slow-but-steady economic growth, improving corporate profits and an accommodative Federal Reserve.

"We believe the domestic economy continues to be OK--not great, but OK," said Lew Piantedosi, who
oversees about $11 billion in equity growth funds at asset-manager Eaton Vance. "It's two steps up,
one and a half steps back. I don't think there's going to be any change to that given the environment we
find ourselves in."

Economic data on Thursday was mixed. Weekly jobless claims came in lower than expected, but orders
of big-ticket items showed a bigger-than-expected drop in August. A third reading on second-quarter
gross domestic product is due Friday, with economists expecting an upward revision to 4.6% growth
from 4.2%.

Write to Dan Strumpf at daniel.strumpf@wsj.com and Min Zeng at min.zeng@wsj.com

CO
IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC | bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | rtz : Rio Tinto PLC | craaus : Rio Tinto Ltd
imet : Mining/Quarrying | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | i211 : Metal Ore Mining
cadr : American Depository Receipts | c17 : Funding/Capital | c171 : Share Capital | cactio : Corporate
Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E
Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | asiaz : Asia | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | easiaz : Eastern Asia |
nz : New Zealand | pacisz : Pacific Islands | uk : United Kingdom | weurz : Western Europe | apacz :
Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document DJTNAE1120140926ea9q0000z

Page13of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.