Exclusive
Asian property transactions to Oct. 10

Asian property transactions to Oct. 10

SE
HD
BY
Anusha Iyer
WC 1,192 words
PD
SN
SC
VOL Issue: 82538
LA
CY
LP

13 October 2014
SNL Real Estate Daily: Asia-Pacific Edition
REAP

English
Copyright 2014. SNL Financial LC

TD

Australia

* Lend Lease Corp. Ltd. and its partner Investa may emerge as the front-runner to acquire and develop a
A$700 million office tower on Exhibition Street, Melbourne, The Australian reported Oct. 9, citing market
observers.

* Mirvac Group said Oct. 9 that it struck a deal to buy Birkenhead Point Shopping Centre in Drummoyne,
Sydney, for A$310.0 million.
The seller is a joint venture of Abacus Property Group and the Kirsh Group, according to a separate
same-day news release. The acquired asset also includes an adjoining parking facility and marina, which
is a leasehold interest with NSW Maritime.

The deal reflects a fully let passing yield of 6.6%.
Completion of the acquisition is scheduled for the last quarter and is subject to the satisfaction of certain
conditions precedent.
The acquired prime waterfront site cover about 3.7 hectares and has a total gross lettable area of more
than 33,100 square meters and car parking for 1,395 vehicles.
* Hotel Property Investments said Oct. 9 that it contracted to buy a freehold hotel property, the
Beenleigh Tavern, in the Eagleby suburb of Brisbane, for A$9.9 million, representing a yield on net
income of 7.9%.
Settlement of the purchase is due to take place on or around Oct. 17.
* Federation Centres said Oct. 7 that it carried out three separate transactions across Australia. The
company nabbed a 25% stake in Mt Ommaney Centre, a regional shopping asset in Brisbane, in a
A$416.3 million deal.
The transaction is being undertaken as part of a co-ownership arrangement with U.S.-based TIAA
Henderson Real Estate, which will own 75% of the center.

The Australian Financial Review noted in a same-date report that AMP Capital is the seller.
Federation Centres said it will provide ongoing property management services at the asset. The
company's share of the purchase comes to approximately A$104.1 million.

Mt Ommaney Centre is anchored by three discount department stores, three supermarkets and four mini
major tenants. It has about 165 specialty tenants and kiosks.
The transaction is expected to settle Oct. 17.
In a separate off-market deal, the company struck unconditional agreements to initially purchase 50% of
a convenience center called Bentons Square in Mornington, Victoria, from a private investor. The asset is
anchored by a Woolworths supermarket, Dan Murphy's liquor store and about 40 specialty shops.

Page15of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Federation Centres is paying A$38.3 million for the half stake and will manage leasing and operations at
the center. Settlement of the acquisition of the initial 50% interest should occur by Oct. 20.

The parties have also entered into put and call option arrangements in relation to the remaining 50%
interest in the center. The options are exercisable before or in July 2016.
Lastly, Federation Centres inked a 50/50 co‐ownership arrangement for the Brandon Park center in
Wheelers Hill, Victoria. A capital partner associated with Australia's leading superannuation fund
managers acquired a 50% interest in the center from Retail Direct Property 6 as an expansion of its
pre‐existing partnership arrangement with Federation Centres.
* Goodman Group is poised to market its 8,314-square-meter Cambridge Office Park in Sydney's Epping,
to cash in on the "swelling" demand for development sites in the area, the AFR reported. The park has
potential for about 500 apartments and is located in one of the city's significant urban renewal areas,
which is marked for a transformation after the New South Wales government, in March, rezoned more
than 50 acres of land for housing and retail.
Goodman's site could be in the range of A$100 million, according to industry sources, the publication
added.
* Sunland Group Ltd. said Oct. 3 that it paid A$61 million for a prime 41.9-hectare residential
development site on the Gold Coast. The settlement is expected to take place in May 2015.
The Lakeview site project is slated to be launched in 2015 and delivered in stages over 10 years.
The site has approval for 1,425 dwellings comprising residential housing, townhouses and medium-rise
buildings, totaling an estimated overall end value of more than A$850 million.
The site currently has a retail precinct.
* Aspen Group rebuffed Discovery Holiday Parks' A$217.3 million takeover bid for its Aspen Parks
Property Fund, The Australian reported Oct. 3, citing industry watchers. Retirement Parks operator and
developer Ingenia Communities Group is also said to have withdrawn its offer citing the shortness of the
due diligence period, the publication noted.
* Charter Hall Group paid A$46 million through its Core Logistics Partnership to acquire an industrial
asset in the Scheinberg family's A$350 million portfolio offering, The Australian Financial Review
reported Oct. 2.

New Zealand
* Singapore sovereign wealth fund GIC has reportedly submitted an "attractive" offer for Scentre Group's
New Zealand portfolio, The Australian reported Oct. 9.
In September, Scentre was said to have been weighing an IPO for a 50% stake in the A$2.6 billion
portfolio or selling it to global pension funds. It was also reported that the shopping center landlord had
been in negotiations with GIC and Canadian pension fund PSP.
China

* Mapletree Logistics Trust said Oct. 8 that it acquired Mapletree Yangshan Bonded Logistics Park in
Shanghai for 197.2 million Chinese yuan and Mapletree Zhenzhou Logistics Park in Zhenzhou for 205.6
million yuan.
The acquisitions are consistent with the company's investment strategy to expand its presence in
higher-growth markets such as China.

Japan

* Sekisui House SI Investment Corp. said Oct. 3 that it decided to acquire eight properties in Tokyo and
other cities with a total planned acquisition price of around ¥16 billion from separate owners. The
properties acquired in Tokyo are Prime Maison Morishita in Koto-ku; Prime Maison Shinagawa in
Shinagawa-ku; Prime Maison Ebisu in Shibuya-ku and Mast Life Yahiro in Sumida-ku.
The company acquired three assets in Sapporo-shi, Hokkaido, namely, Prime Maison Odori Koen; Prime
Maison Minami 2-JO; and Prime Maison Kamokamogawa in Sapporo-shi, Hokkaido. Prime Maison
Central Park is in Fukuoka-shi, Fukuoka.
Sekisui House will fund the acquisition through a public offering of units and a third-party allotment.

Page16of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Malaysia
* Axis REIT's manager said Oct. 7 that it agreed to buy an industrial facility in Kawasan Perindustrian
SiLC, Johor, for 153.5 million Malaysian ringgit. The company signed a sale and leaseback agreement
with Yongnam Engineering Sdn. Bhd. to buy the asset.

* Tropicana Corp. Bhd. said Oct. 2 that its unit Tropicana Subang South Development Sdn. Bhd. agreed
to sell about 9,968 square meters of freehold land in Bandar Subang Jaya, Daerah Petaling, Negeri
Selangor Darul Ehsan, for a total cash consideration of 37.6 million ringgit.

Indonesia
* Lippo Karawaci said Oct. 5 that it sold 90% of total units offered at the phase 2 of the Holland Village
residential tower in Jakarta within five hours of launching the scheme. Proceeds from the sale have hit
500 billion Indonesian rupiah.

Some links may require a subscription.

CO abap : Abacus Property Group | llc : Lend Lease Group | mirva : Mirvac Group
IN

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150206
: Investment Trusts/Funds | i815020602 : Real Estate Investment Trusts | i85 : Real Estate Transactions |
ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | cabc : British Columbia | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia
Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | cana : Canada | namz : North America | queensl : Queensland

NS
RE

IPD Real Estate Property Transactions & Development
PUB SNL Financial LC
AN

Document REAP000020141016eaad00002

Page17of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.