Richard Gu to lure Sixth Sense

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

PrimeSpace
Richard Gu to lure Sixth Sense

EXCLUSIVE: GREG BROWN, HOTELS
414 words
14 August 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
26
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Prolific Melbourne-based developer Richard Gu’s AXF Group is negotiating to bring luxury
international hotel brand Six Senses Hotels Resorts Spas to Australia while also creating its own
serviced apartment label.
Talks are being held with the boutique Six Senses to operate a proposed hotel at AXF’s Total House
carpark site in Melbourne’s Chinatown, industry sources say.

AXF bought the Russell Street site in 2012. It was placed on the Victorian heritage register earlier in
the year, reportedly due to being one of the earliest examples of brutalist architecture in the city.
While this put a question mark over the site’s development potential, it is understood AXF is pushing
forward its plan, which is expected to include a 70-storey hotel and apartment building.

Six Senses, established in 1995, has 27 hotels in Asia, Europe and the Middle East. Many are in
regional locations, but also it has presences in cities such as Paris and London.

Sources said AXF would likely role out the brand in a number of its Australian developments, rather
than just at the Total House site.

Mr Gu declined to comment on the Six Senses negotiations yesterday. But he revealed to The
Australian that AXF was aiming to launch its own serviced-apartment brand, So Stay, in Melbourne,
Sydney and Brisbane.
Sources said the Six Sense hotel and the So Stay serviced apartments would likely feature many of
the same developments.
The serviced-apartment component would look to attract Asian business travellers and Asians visiting
family in Australia.

Mr Gu said the brand would be mostly promoted through tourist channels in Asia. The serviced
apartments would include Asian food and entertainment. “It makes their living more like home,’’ Mr Gu
said. “Even though (other global branded hotels) have big names they don’t have the service we offer
which is unique in the Asian market.’’ So Stay is expected to feature in AXF’s under-construction
development at Box Hill in Melbourne.
Mr Gu has not yet revealed plans for his Sydney purchases.

AXF bought Fairfax House, at Sydney’s Circular Quay, for $55 million in March and is thought to be
circling the adjacent Rugby Club building. AXF also purchased a small building from lawyer John
Landerer in the southern precinct of the CBD.It is understood Mr Gu aims to build luxury apartments
and a six- star hotel on the Fairfax House site.

IN

ihotel : Hotel Construction | i501 : Building Construction | iconst : Construction | icre : Real
Estate/Construction

Page243of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS
RE

PUB
AN

ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | sydney : Sydney | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia
Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South Wales
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140813ea8e0004x

Page244of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.