Australia Pacific LNG faces court over TriStar coalseam gas claims

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Australia Pacific LNG faces court over TriStar coalseam gas claims

518 words
28 October 2014
Platts Commodity News
PLATT
English
Copyright 2014. Platts. All Rights Reserved.

Sydney (Platts)--28Oct2014/908 pm EDT/108 GMT

Australia Pacific LNG, one of the country's three emerging coalseam gas-to-LNG projects in Queensland,
is facing court action from Texas-based independent Tri-Star Petroleum, which is seeking the return of its
stake in more than 60 tenements it sold to the joint venture in 2002.

Tri-Star started legal proceedings in the Supreme Court of Queensland seeking to enforce its rights to
revert to a 45% interest in the tenements, the company said in a statement Tuesday.
Australia Pacific LNG is 37.5% owned by Australia's Origin Energy, which is the operator of the
upstream component of the project. Downstream operator ConocoPhillips also owns 37.5%, with China's
Sinopec holding the remaining 25%.

The tenements at the center of the claim are located in the Bowen, Surat and Galilee basins in the
eastern state of Queensland, which are being developed to supply gas to Australia Pacific LNG's
liquefaction and export facilities on Curtis Island in Gladstone. The permits include the Fairview, Durham,
Walloon, Condabri, Durham and Spring Gully coalseam gas fields, discovered and appraised by Tri-Star
during the 1990s.
Tri-Star said it sold its interests to Australia Pacific LNG, at the time known as Oil Company of Australia,
to operate and develop under a farm-out and reversion deed. Under the terms of the 2002 deal, the
companies agreed that Tri-Star's rights to the coalseam projects would revert to Tri-Star when benefits
and revenue to Australia Pacific LNG first exceeded agreed development costs.

"Relevant costs include capital and operating expenditures, interest and vendor and government royalty
payments," Tri-Star said. "The Supreme Court has been asked to confirm that benefits received by
Australia Pacific LNG and its affiliates from third-party contracts and arrangements have in fact triggered
reversion."
Tri-Star claims the contracts and arrangements include the A$9.6 billion ($8.5 billion) paid in 2008 by
ConocoPhillips for its initial share of Australia Pacific LNG, the US$2.86 billion paid by Sinopec to the
joint venture in 2012, and an agreement for the supply of 1 million mt/year of LNG for 20 years struck
with Kansai Electric Power Company in 2012.

"We have not taken this decision lightly," Tri-Star president and managing director James Butler said in
the statement. "We have been in discussion with APLNG for many years over these matters and have
been unable to reach an agreement."
In a separate statement, Origin said it was "confident that reversion has not occurred." The company
added that Australia Pacific LNG was reviewing the statement of claim and would respond "in due
course."

Australia Pacific LNG is one of three LNG projects currently nearing completion on Curtis Island and is
scheduled to begin producing in mid-2015. The A$24.7 billion facility comprises two production trains
with total capacity of 9 million mt/year.

Christine Forster, christine.forster@platts.com

Edited by Meghan Gordon, meghan.gordon@platts.com

Page117of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CO

IN

RE

aulngj : Australia Pacific LNG Pty. Ltd. | boral : Origin Energy Ltd | cpetc : China Petroleum and Chemical
Corp (Sinopec Corp) | philp : ConocoPhillips | chpc : China Petrochemical Corp
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300004 : Liquefied/Compressed Gas | iexplo : Natural
Gas/Oil Exploration
austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South Wales
0100

IPD
PUB Platts, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies Inc.
AN

Document PLATT00020141029eaas0005m

Page118of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.