Palmer’s China comments could scupper trade deal

HD
BY
WC 696 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

Palmer’s China comments could scupper trade deal

by Michael Sainsbury

25 August 2014
Crikey
CRIKAU
English
(c) Copyright 2014 Private Media Partners Pty. Ltd. All Right Reserved.

TD

The Abbott government was close to negotiating a free trade agreement with China. That is, until Clive
Palmer got involved.

http://media.crikey.com.au/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/palmerqanda.png

Clive Palmer’s anti-Chinese government comments last week — they are “bastards” and
“mongrels” — could not have come at a worse time for Prime Minister Tony Abbott and Trade Minister
Andrew Robb.
Chinese President Xi Jinping is preparing to bring more than 400 people — the largest business and
political delegation from the country ever to set foot in Australia — to our shores to coincide with the G20
summit in Brisbane. At the same time the Australian government desperately wants to finalise a free trade
agreement with China that has been in discussions for nine years.

The entourage will include potential investors for every sector of Australia’s fraying economy, and
Crikey has also learned that Xi will be bringing at least five leaders of the six major Chinese east coast
provinces, which have “sister state” relationships with Australian states. These are the southern economic
powerhouse of Guangdong, China’s most populous province with 104 million people, and sister state to
New South Wales; Zhejiang, sister state to Western Australia and home to the famous entrepreneur
breeding ground city Wenzhou; Shanghai  (one of China’s four city-state municipalities), which  is
“sistered” with Queensland; Shandong (South Australia); Jiangsu (Victoria); and Fujian (Tasmania).
More sophisticated people in Beijing dismiss Palmer’s spray — once a key China supporter (after all, the
country has made him rich), he is in the midst of a grubby legal battle with China’s state-run CITIC Pacific
over its disastrous purchase of the rights to mine the $10 billion Sino Iron project. It’s not insignificant
that Palmer sold them a pup (excuse the pun) although they bought it with eyes wide shut.

But not everyone was amused by his comments. The Communist Party’s Murdoch-inspired tabloid The
Global Times called him a “prancing provocateur” and said: “China must be aware that Palmer’s rampant
rascality serves as a symbol that Australian society has an unfriendly attitude toward China.”
Chinese social media was also set alight by his comments.

The fracas also means Abbott and Robb now face fresh pressure on an already fraught, self-imposed
deadline to get a free trade agreement signed with China before the end of the year. And Palmer’s raising
the subject of Chinese ownership of Australian assets — a significant concern within the National
Party — will make it more difficult to sell an FTA that gives more away to China.
Anti-Chinese ownership sentiment will make all it all the more difficult for Abbott and Robb to hand China
the key part of the deal China has been demanding: the same $1 billion floor on investments, currently
applied to investments from the United States, South Korea and Japan, that would be reviewed by the
Foreign Investment Review Board.

Crikey understands that this is still on the table for private companies — but here lies the rub. The biggest
Chinese investors in Australia are state-owned enterprises — and only two years ago, then-opposition
leader Tony Abbott announced, in Beijing, no less, that he was not in favor of  allowing SOEs to own
majority shares in any Australian companies. Since then, Treasurer Joe Hockey has allowed State Grid

Page144of416©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Corp of China, the world’s biggest state utility, to buy 19% of electricity supplier SP AusNet and 60% of
energy infrastructure company SPI Australia. That’s some backflip.
There is a standard clause in FIRB rules that any state-owned company investment, irrespective of its
size, needs review. But the Chinese are pushing hard to have at least a minimum amount introduced for
SOEs as well. Palmer may well have given them more ammunition.

Following his visit to Australia, Xi and much of his delegation will head to New Zealand. Like many
European countries, it has done a much better job of branding itself for the Chinese market and pulling in
investment across a range of sectors.

Game on.

RF
NS
RE

http://www.crikey.com.au/?p=454104
e512 : Physical Trade | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC
Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

PUB Private Media Partners Pty Ltd.
AN

Document CRIKAU0020140825ea8p00005

Page145of416©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.