(AE) Ferret's MOVING FACES

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

(AE) Ferret's MOVING FACES

1,210 words
4 June 2014
Ralph Wragg Australian Business News
AAPRAW
English
Copyright 2014 RWE AUSTRALIAN BUSINESS NEWS PTY LTD. All Rights Reserved.

Sydney - Wednesday - June 4: (RWE Australian Business News) - A list of changes of management
within ASX-listed companies.

Moving in ...

* Andrew Skelton has been appointed as chief executive officer of Cabcharge Australia Ltd. Mr Skelton
has worked at all levels of the taxi industry and his strategic vision for the company is focused on
delivering better service for customers, better relationships with industry partners and better outcomes for
shareholders.
The company has also appointed Rick Millen and Rod Gilmour as non-executive directors. Mr Millen has
extensive experience in transactions, corporate finance and accounting through a career spanning more
than 30 years with PricewaterhouseCoopers. Mr Gilmour has extensive experience in chief executive,
board and other leadership roles in public and private sector organisations in transport; business &
economic development; and health and community services.

* Frank Houllis has been appointed as chief executive officer of Uranex Ltd and will commence with the
company on August 27. Dr Houllis brings an incredible depth of experience, which includes more than 20
years of practical experience in the development and engineering of metallurgical processes. Peter
Sarantzouklis was appointed non-executive chairman, effective today. He has been a non-executive
director for 10 months and is currently CFO of St George Banking Group. Mr Sarantzouklis brings
significant executive management experience including finance, marketing, business development,
large-scale project build and product management. Uranex's existing chairman, Johann Jacobs, will
continue to support the company as a non-executive director, backed up by 35 years' experience in the
resources industry
* Paul Harapin has been appointed CEO to lead the Australia and New Zealand business of Decimal
Software Ltd. Mr Harapin has significant experience and an outstanding track record over 25 years with
various startup and established technology companies across the Asia-Pacific region. This includes the
rapid growth of major software vendor Tivoli Systems, as well as launching the world's leading cloud
virtualisation software company, VMWare.

Executive chairman Michael Sertorio will continue to be the head of the Decimal business including
managing group corporate strategy and investor relations, along with executive director Jan Kolbusz, who
will focus on the current and future stages of product development and technology innovation and
implementation.

* Owen Wilson has been appointed as chief financial officer of REA Group Ltd. He will commence the role
in September. An accomplished CFO with 20 years' experience in senior finance roles, Mr Wilson most
recently held the role of CFO and company secretary at Chandler Macleod Group Ltd. He has also held
senior roles at ANZ Banking Group and KPMG.

* Paul McCarthy has been appointed as the new CFO of iSelect Ltd. He is expected to commence with
the company in July. Mr McCarthy is a chartered accountant by background and joins iSelect with 17
years of experience as a finance and commercial executive in major corporate, investment banking and
corporate finance roles.

Page265of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.* Brumby Resources Ltd today announced the appointment of Drew Totterdell as a non-executive
director. Mr Totterdell has 15 years' experience in a variety of corporate finance, banking and mining
company roles including project finance, senior debt, equity capital markets and mergers and
acquisitions, and is about to commence employment as a director of Taurus Funds Management.

* Yancoal Australia Ltd has entered into an executive service agreement with Baocai Zhang as co-vice
chairman of the board and chair of the Executive Committee that commences on the date Mr Zhang
obtains an appropriate work visa that entitles him to work for Yancoal in Australia. Mr Zhang has been a
director and secretary of Yanzhou Coal Mining Company Ltd since 2006, and deputy general manager
of Yanzhou Coal since 2011.

* Mitchell Services Ltd advises that Grant Moyle has been appointed as an alternate director for Nathan
Mitchell. Mr Moyle is the CEO of Mitchell Group Holdings in Brisbane and brings management and board
experience in international mining services, governance and strategic business growth.

Moving On ...

* Thorn Group Ltd reports David Carter will be stepping down as chair on August 26, following which
fellow director Joycelyn Morton will assume the role of chair. Ms Morton has been chair of the board's
Audit, Risk and Compliance committee since being appointed a Thorn director in October 2011. She has
extensive business experience in Australia and internationally, has been a past national president of CPA
Australia, is chair of Noni B Ltd and is a non-executive director of Argo Investments Ltd and Snowy Hydro
Ltd.

Mr Carter steps down as part of the board renewal process, initiated some four years ago. He will remain
on the board until December 31 2014. Thorn has commenced a search for a non-executive director to
replace Mr Carter and assume the chair of the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee.

* Westpac today announced the retirement of Greg Targett from its executive team and the appointment
of Alexandra Holcomb to the position of chief risk officer. Mr Targett retires after a 35-year career in
banking, including the past five years as Westpac's chief risk officer. He joined Westpac following its
merger with St George, where he was also chief risk officer.
Ms Holcomb joined Westpac in 1996 from management consulting firmBooz Allen & Hamilton, where she
specialised in international credit. She has held a number of senior executive positions within Westpac
Institutional Bank, as well as in Group Strategy and Mergers & Acquisitions. She is currently General
Manager, Global Transactional Services.

* Admiralty Resources NL has reluctantly accepted the resignation of Hanrui Zhong as managing director
and CEO. Mr Zhong remains on the board as a non-executive director. The board has appointed Qing
Zhong as managing director and CEO. Mrs Zhong recently led a delegation of Chinese Investors to view
the company's operations in Chile and carried out an extensive review of the Chilean operations. She
has been involved in capital management and investment businesses for more than 10 years.

* Julien Playoust has advised Australian Renewable Fuels Ltd of his intention to retire as director effective
from the conclusion of the snnual general meeting to be held on or about October 28. The board thanked
Mr Playoust for his diligence and efforts for more than five years as a director and for his work as
chairman of the board's Remuneration Committee.

* Michael Bartlett intends to step down from the board of Templeton Global Growth Fund Ltd effective
June 30, due to the pressure of other commitments.
* Francis Enrico Gutierrez has resigned as a non-executive director of Sierra Mining Ltd. The remaining
Sierra directors will resign following implementation of the schemes today.
* Chandler Macleod Group CFO and company secretary Owen Wilson has resigned. He joined the
company in 2008 and is leaving to take up a new role as the CFO of REA Group. Chandler Macleod has
commenced an executive search for Mr Wilson's replacement, and it is anticipated Mr Wilson will stay on
until September.
* Troy Nunan has resigned from his position as CFO and company secretary of Eureka Group Holdings
Ltd. It expects to announce the appointment of the incoming CFO in the next few days with an expected
commencement date in mid-June. Oliver Schweizer has been appointed to the role of interim company
secretary.

CO

cabchg : Cabcharge Australia Ltd | uraxau : Uranex Ltd.

Page266of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS

i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i722 : Taxi/Limousine Service | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying | irailtr : Road/Rail Transport | itsp : Transportation/Shipping
c411 : Management Moves | c41 : Management Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB RWE Australian Business News Pty Ltd
AN

Document AAPRAW0020140604ea640018h

Page267of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.