Samsung considers Roy Hill options

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Samsung considers Roy Hill options

Saskia Pickles
731 words
17 February 2014
WA Business News
WABN
English
© Copyright 2014 Business News Pty Ltd.

The failure of construction company Forge Group has forced Roy Hill's major contractor Samsung
C&T to consider alternative ways to continue work on the iron ore project, including the possibility of
taking over the work Forge can no longer complete.

A Samsung spokeswoman said today that it was considering a couple of options regarding the $1.47
billion joint venture contract which Samsung awarded to Forge and Spanish contractor Duro Felguera,
but that a decision had not been made yet.

It is believed other possibilities include appointing a new contractor or giving more work to Duro
Felguera.

As the number of retrenched Forge employees hits 1470, Samsung is one of several companies
currently deciding how to complete contracts that Forge had been awarded.
Forge had a number of multi-million dollar construction and engineering projects with mines and
power stations in Australia including an $830 million contract with the Roy Hilliron ore mine, and
three contracts worth $450 million with Rio Tintoiron ore for two of its mines and one of its power
stations.

Almost immediately after Ferrier Hodgson was appointed administrator by Forge's directors and
KordaMentha was named receiver by ANZ last week all but two of these contracts were quickly
cancelled.

One was with Horizon Power for the construction of its South Hedland power station, and the other
was with Queensland's Diamantina power station, where cost overruns led to the beginning of Forge's
downfall late last year.

Over the weekend Forge receivers KordaMentha said it couldn't agree on how to complete its power
station construction contract with Horizon, resulting in 70 Forge workers at that site losing their jobs.

It's believed 40 to 50 Forge workers remain at Diamantina for now.
BHP Billiton, which awarded a $100 million contract to Forge to help build its Yarnima power station,
said it was not commenting on the contract, but it is believed to have contingency plans in place.
Horizon Power and Spanish contractor Tecnicas Reunidas, which awarded a $70 million contract to
Forge to build the Burrup ammonium nitrate plant, could not be contacted for comment.

Rio Tinto declined to comment today.

Ferrier Hodgson, which announced it is acting in a largely subordinate role to KordaMentha, will hold
the first creditors meeting in Perth this Friday.

Over the weekend labour hirer Skilled Group began a process of rehiring almost 100 Forge workers
who worked at Roy Hill, at the behest of major contractor Samsung C&T.

While the measure is considered to be a stop gap, Samsung has yet to announce a permanent
solution.

Page56of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Roy Hill said today that Samsung was working to get things back on track very quickly and it was
confident its long term interests would not be impacted.

"Continuity of construction is important," a Roy Hill spokesman said.

A Samsung spokeswoman said Forge's fallout would not affect its previously stated plans to award
one more engineering, procurement and construction subcontract, which is due to be announced in
the "very near future".
So far Samsung has awarded six EPC contracts worth $3.34 billion and $43 million worth of
contracts to two design firms, of which the largest contract was to Forge and its JV partner.

When it was appointed in March last year Samsung said the value of its contract from Hancock
Prospecting was for $5.59 billion.
While Roy Hill is still waiting on debt financing of $US7 billion, the project has progressed
considerably with 1700 workers on site already and a number of infrastructure facilities in place
including an airport and workers accommodation.

Japanese trading house Marubeni revealed earlier this month that three large Japanese banks were in
the final stages of negotiating a debt finance deal.
Hancock Prospecting has a 70 per cent equity interest in Roy Hill, with the rest split between
Marubeni, Korean steel company Posco and Taiwan's China Steel Corporation.

Major Forge contracts
$830 million of $1.47 billion JV Roy Hill iron ore
$420 millionAPA Group and AGL Energy Diamantina power station
$280 millionRio Tinto Cape Lambert power station
$125 million Horizon Power South Hedland power station
$100 millionRio Tinto Yandi iron ore
$100 millionBHP Billiton Yarnima power station
$70 millionTecnicas Reunidas Burrup TAN ammonium nitrate plant
$70 millionRio Tinto West Angelas iron ore

CO
IN

RE
PUB
AN

durfel : Duro Felguera SA | samsng : Samsung C&T
i5020044 : Power Station Construction | i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i221 :
Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | i22 : Primary Metals | i502 : Heavy Construction | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | iconst : Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction | imet : Mining/Quarrying |
i32 : Machinery | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | iindstrls
: Industrial Goods
austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Business News Pty Ltd
Document WABN000020140217ea2h000ma

Page57of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.