RBA Thinks A$ Closer To--But Not yet At--Fundamental Value -- Market Talk

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

RBA Thinks A$ Closer To--But Not yet At--Fundamental Value -- Market Talk

1,593 words
7 October 2014
15:32
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

0432 GMT [Dow Jones] The Reserve Bank of Australia was expected to maintain that a "period of
stability" for rates remains likely and acknowledge the 7% fall in the Australian dollar. It did both, said
Sean Callow, currency strategist at Westpac. He adds that commentary on the exchange rate continues
to evolve at the central bank. In acknowledging the recent fall, the RBA has removed the reference to the
Australian dollar being above estimates of its fundamental value. This suggests the currency is closer to,
but arguably not yet at, its fundamental value, Callow notes. (james.glynn@wsj.com; Twitter:
@JamesGlynnWSJ)

Editor JSM

TD

0426 GMT [Dow Jones] J.P. Morgan says its forecast for the Bank of Thailand to begin increasing
interest rates by 25 basis points in the first quarter of 2015 is under threat if weak domestic demand in
the economy persists. It says the key impetus for growth is now the government's 365 billion baht (about
$11 billion) stimulus program, which includes cash transfers to the agricultural sector. This, says the
bank in a research note, should bolster domestic demand significantly in the fourth quarter, if, that is,
spending can begin in the coming weeks. (james.hookway@wsj.com)

Editor: KLH

0425 GMT [Dow Jones] The AUD/USD is slightly lower after the decision by the Reserve Bank of
Australia to keep rates on hold. Its statement was interpreted as more dovish than expected, says HiFX
senior trader Michael Johnston: "They say they expect inflation not to be a problem, growth to be below
trend for the next few quarters and Aussie commodity prices could fall further. They are firmly on hold."
The pair is at 0.8744 versus 0.8752 ahead of the announcement. He puts support for the pair at 0.8660
with resistance coming in at 0.8780. (lucy.craymer@wsj.com; Twitter: @lucy_craymer)

Editor JSM

0420 GMT [Dow Jones] Australia's central bank left its benchmark interest rate unchanged for a 14th
month in a row Tuesday saying a sharp fall in the Australian dollar over recent weeks will help the
economy, but that it still remains overvalued. "The most prudent course is likely to be a period of stability
in interest rates," the Reserve Bank of Australia says. The policy rate was kept at its record low of 2.5%
to cushion the economy against the end of a mining investment boom, a sharp downturn in commodity
prices, and growing signs of a slowdown in China. "The exchange rate...remains high by historical
standards, particularly given the further declines in key commodity prices in recent months," the central
bank said following a policy meeting earlier today. The Australian dollar was little moved on the
comments, trading in a tight range around US$0.8750 after. (james.glynn@wsj.com; Twitter:
@JamesGlynnWSJ)

Page35of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Editor JSM

0354 GMT [Dow Jones] Australian shares, and to a lesser extent their global counterparts, may be part
way through a deeper correction, but will likely stop short of bear market territory, says Shane Oliver,
head of investment strategy at AMP Capital Investors. Among worries bringing the market down are
expectations of tightening by the U.S. Federal Reserve; fragile economic growth in Europe, Japan and
China; and geopolitical tensions in the Middle East. Importantly, however, share-price valuations don't
look extreme. "From a fundamental point of view the cycle still looks okay with no sign of the
overvaluation, overheating economic conditions, onerous monetary tightening or investor euphoria that
normally precedes major bear markets," Oliver says. (Ross.Kelly@wsj.com)

Editor JSM

0330 GMT [Dow Jones] The short end of New Zealand government bond yields are likely to continue to
inch higher as the "market still underestimates the path ahead for the official cash rate. We see the OCR
at 4.75% by 2016, while the market prices around a 4.25% OCR in two years' time." says BNZ in a note.
It adds that, with the passage of time, the two-year swap will roll up as it discounts a higher two-year
window for the cash rate. BNZ also sees long-end yields moving higher partly due to moves in the U.S.
equivalent market. (lucy.craymer@wsj.com; Twitter: @lucy_craymer)

Editor JSM

0318 GMT [Dow Jones] "Occupy Central" does not pose any imminent harm to Hong Kong landlords,
but it will bring more uncertainties in the medium term, says Deutsche Bank. Turnover rent, the practice
of linking rents to the sales generated by the tenants, only accounts for a small percentage of total rental
revenue, so the decline in retail sales have little impact up to this point, it says. In the medium term,
however, mainland visitors may see Hong Kong as a less attractive destination. Among the listed
landlords, Deutsche thinks Hysan (0014.HK) is most impacted, with 100% of its retail portfolio and 43% of
its net asset value affected by the protests. (jacky.wong@wsj.com; Twitter: @jackycwong)

Editor: KLH

0303 GMT [Dow Jones] The Nikkei rises modestly into positive territory just before the midday break,
now up 0.04% at 15897.31. Volume is tepid at just 990 million shares. The Bank of Japan's decision on
policy is likely to be announced some time in the next two hours. "Traders are being realistic about the
almost zero chance of any policy change; rather, they want to see if there is any dissent among board
members over the BOJ's stance," says an equity trading director at a European brokerage. "Considering
how closely intertwined politics, monetary policy and public investment policy have come to be under
Abenomics, how the BOJ views progress toward its inflation goal could have a dramatic effect on how the
massive Government Pension Investment Fund (GPIF) rejiggers its portfolio." The director adds that the
market may have to wait until November 17 for second-quarter economic data to get a firmer idea on the
scope of the country's next tax hike, and to grasp the impact of potentially trillions of yen in changes to
domestic stock and bond allocations involved in the GPIF realignment. (bradford.frischkorn@wsj.com)

Editor JSM

0302 GMT [Dow Jones] Bank Indonesia said it sold dollars in the market last month to stabilize the
rupiah's exchange rate, citing the move as one of the reasons for the drop in the foreign exchange
reserves to $111.2 billion at the end of September from $111.16 billion at the end of August. Dealers
suspects Bank Indonesia intervened mostly in the third and fourth weeks of September when the
USD/IDR climbed above 12,200. "We hadn't seen any sign of Bank Indonesia's intervention since Friday,
indicating that it doesn't try to drive the pair to certain level, but only to reduce the fluctuation," a dealer
says. They add the central bank will likely continue its policy not to defend the pair at any certain level but
let the market find an equilibrium for the pair. A weaker rupiah is also needed to help Indonesian exports
more competitive while also discourage imports.(i-made.sentana@wsj.com)

Page36of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Editor: KLH

0258 GMT [Dow Jones] Gold prices are a touch lower in Asian trade, largely maintaining an overnight
rebound after the price touched a low for the year the previous session. Asian demand for the precious
metal has been relatively modest, but demand could surge if prices were to fall again below $1,200/oz,
ANZ says in a report. India, the world's second-largest gold consumer, will be celebrating its biggest
buying occasion, the Hindu festival of lights or Diwali, on Oct. 23, which could mean an increase in
demand. At 0250 GMT, spot gold was down 0.3% at $1,203.08 an ounce. (biman.mukherji@wsj.com)

0237 GMT [Dow Jones] A softer reading for Australian house price growth in September may have eased
some of the concerns the central bank has about the housing market, however the trend in dwelling
values remains strong with the RP Data CoreLogic index reporting a 2.9% increase in capital city house
price growth over the third quarter, says Tim Lawless, head of research at RP Data. If investor interest in
these markets doesn't moderate the central bank, in conjunction with the banking regulator, can be
expected to intervene via prudential regulation of the banking sector to attempt to slow down the level of
investment lending activity in the market, he adds. (james.glynn@wsj.com; Twitter @JamesGlynnWSJ)

0230 GMT [Dow Jones] Despite the sharp fall in the Australian dollar over the last month, UBS currency
strategist Greg Gibbs still expects the central bank to say it is fundamentally high, highlighting the deeper
fall in commodity prices this year. Gibbs adds that over the last month, the RBA has expressed concern
that house prices may have become too elevated and the housing market un-balanced with an
historically high share of loan growth generated by investors. Gibbs doubts the RBA will introduce this
into their monetary policy statement, but if they did it would probably flatten the rates curve and weaken
the Australian dollar on fear that macro-prudential controls were imminent and the housing market may
weaken.(james.glynn@wsj.com; Twitter @JamesGlynnWSJ)

Editor: KLH
(END) Dow Jones Newswires

October 07, 2014 00:32 ET (04:32 GMT)

CO
IN
NS

rbkaus : Reserve Bank of Australia
i81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
e1202 : Interest Rates | ecat : Economic News | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | namt : All
Market Talk | ndjmt : Dow Jones Market Talk | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income
Asset Class News | nfxacb : Forex Asset Class Basic News | nfxacp : Forex Asset Class Premium News |
e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion
Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
AN

Document DJDN000020141007eaa7000ea

Page37of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.