Cliffs to focus on US iron ore , sell Australian mining

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
VOL
LA
CY
LP

TD

News Stories; Americas
Cliffs to focus on US iron ore, sell Australian mining

Joe Innace
334 words
29 August 2014
Platts SBB Steel Markets Daily
STEELDLY
ISSN: 1935-7354, Volume 8, Issue 170
English
© 2014 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

New leadership at Cleveland-based Cliffs Natural Resources is tweaking the company’s strategy while
confronting the same challenges in the iron ore and coal markets, noted analyst Timna Tanners in a
Bank of America Merrill Lynch report issued Friday.
Cliffs has already hired banks to pursue a sale of its Australia iron ore mining, US coal mines, and
other operations — but not its core infrastructure, new CEO Lourenco Goncalves told Tanners during
a Thursday meeting at the miner’s headquarters.

“This was a departure from initial Casablanca plans to MLP (Master Limited Partnership) the US ops,
spin off international assets, and sell infrastructure,” Tanners explained in her note. She added that
Goncalves was cautious on iron ore prices and focused on cost cutting via modest US capital
investments.

Goncalves became chairman and CEO earlier this month after activist investor group Casablanca
Capital won a proxy fight for control of the Cleveland-based company’s board.

“Just in the role three weeks,” Tanners noted that “he was visiting US and Canada ops to focus on cost
cutting and decide whether to continue expansion plans in Canada or shut down entirely.”
Tanners maintained that Goncalves was keen to supply mini-mills DR pellets for direct reduced iron
(DRI). “He expected an upcoming meeting with [Nucor] could result in a supply agreement” to use one
million tons from Cliffs, the report stated.

Nonetheless, BofAML continues to rate Cliffs as "underperform." Tanners explained: “The story is still
about iron ore where we remain cautious, and we find depressed value at current iron ore prices. We
do not change our underperform rating, but would watch cost-cutting efforts and Canadian turnaround
efforts.”
The underperform rating assumes BofAML's iron ore price forecast of $95/mt. Tanners summarized
that the company's "new options are interesting, but don't offset [iron ore] oversupply concerns with
new, cheap Australian and sticky Chinese supply."

Joe Innace

CO
IN

RE

IPD

ccic : Cliffs Natural Resources Inc | zccash : Casablanca Capital LP
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | i22 : Primary Metals |
ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial
Vehicles | ialtinv : Alternative Investments | ifinal : Financial Services | ihedge : Hedge Funds | iinv :
Investing/Securities
austr : Australia | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North
America
Business Action

Page81of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB
AN

The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Document STEELDLY20140912ea8t00015

Page82of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.