THE Australian farm and agribusiness sectors will need

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

EARLY GENERAL NEWS
THE Australian farm and agribusiness sectors will need

Vernon Graham
417 words
5 June 2014
The Land
FTLAND
29
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

THE Australian farm and agribusiness sectors will need an injection of $180 billion during the next
20 years to fully exploit the Asian dining boom.

The federal Member for Hume and southern NSW farmer Angus Taylor told this week's Funding
Agriculture's Future seminar in Canberra the rural sector was already loaded up with debt and was
not in a position to significantly add to borrowings.

The challenge was to find new sources of funding to ensure the Australian farm sector could grab
expanding global markets for premium foods, particularly among China's swelling middle classes.
Mr Taylor, a former business consultant who has advised the likes of Rio Tinto, Fonterra and ANZ
Bank before entering politics, said heavy investment was needed in Australia's struggling farm
supply chains.

As an example, he said the grain supply chain from farm to port was antiquated, expensive and
inadequate and costing growers $50 a tonne or more to shift their har- vest to seaboard for export.

Mr Taylor said Australian agriculture needed big, efficient supply chains but also competition to
ensure producers received their fair share of the benefits.

But savings from significant new investment would not automatically flow to growers where supply
chains were controlled by virtual monopolies, he said.

Governments may have to regulate to get the balance right or farmers may need to take actions
themselves such as creating their own co-operatives to take control, as New Zea- land dairy
farmers had done through their giant co-op, Fonterra, he said.
However, Rabobank's NZ chief executive officer Ben Russell told the seminar Kiwi dairy farmers
were also deep in debt to the tune of $NZ51b.

Banks in NZ were not overly concerned about these levels of borrowings, he said, but clearly any
major hiccup in the crucial Chinese import market would likely cause major financial headaches
across the Tasman.

The seminar, organised by the Australian Farm Institute, explored funding options beyond
traditional bank finance to fund agriculture's future.
Those options included joint ventures with equity investors, the sale and lease back of farms and
irrigation water allocations, and partnerships with local and overseas investors.

A number of speakers including Stuart Hooper from Pricewater- house Coopers, and Ben Craw
from PPB Advisory said they were fielding phone calls on a daily basis from foreign investors keen
to invest in Australian agriculture.

Page213of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CO
IN
RE

PUB
AN

aanzb : Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Limited
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
austr : Australia | nz : New Zealand | auscap : Australian Capital Territory | nswals : New South
Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FTLAND0020140604ea650002m

Page214of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.