Real estate agents launch new brand in SA market

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Real estate agents launch new brand in SA market

TOM BOWDEN REAL ESTATE EDITOR
519 words
1 February 2014
The Advertiser
ADVTSR
Advertiser
76
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

THEY’VE won numerous awards in their relatively short real estate careers and now Alex Ouwens
and Nathan Casserly are launching their own brand in the market.
The Ouwens Casserly Real Estate directors this weekend launch their new brand and Mr Ouwens
said the new year was the perfect time for their new venture.

“It’s a time when the real estate industry is changing and we thought we could create a new brand
that was very connected to the SA marketplace,” Mr Ouwens said.
Mr Ouwens, 35, started in real estate in 2006 and Mr Casserly, 35, in 2007 and the pair launched
Harcourts Ouwens Casserly in November 2011.
Mr Ouwens said that agency had sold between $250 million and $300 million worth of SA residential
property in their first two years.

The agency also won numerous awards including City/Eastern Agent of the Year and Best New
Agency awards at the 2012 REISA Awards for Excellence and Auction Office of the Year at the
Society of Auctioneers and Appraisers 2012 awards.
The agents’ new company, Ouwens Casserly Real Estate, currently employs more than 50 staff
across its Henley Beach, Adelaide and Collinswood offices, and the company manages more than
1000 properties.
“We’re really fortunate that we’ve managed to grow our company in a marketplace that has been
quite challenging,” Mr Ouwens said.

The launch of a new brand means a whole new look for the pair and Mr Casserly said they consulted
local advertising agency Showpony Advertising to create the right image for their new brand.

“We searched all over Australia and were prepared to travel internationally to work with the right
people, and the good thing is that we came back to a local South Australian brand that has a lot of
experience with real estate marketing,” he said.

Mr Casserly said it made sense for the pair to capitalise on the brand recognition their names already
attracted.
“My father’s been in real estate in the Adelaide marketplace for over 40 years and the Ouwens name
has been associated in the legal field and, in particular, property law, for about the same time, so
there is a lot of goodwill in our name,” Mr Casserly said.
Mr Ouwens said the company’s strong ties with the Chinese market was a key driver behind
Harcourts Ouwens Casserly’s success, particularly in the top end of the market, and their new
company would build on this connection.

Page110of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“We have a strong presence in the international marketplace and we really think that that mix of our
new brand being based locally but with those international connections brings the highest prices and
the best service to our vendors,” Mr Ouwens said.

Mr Casserly said the duo were appreciative of their experience at Harcourts. “We owe a lot to
Harcourts and have a lot of respect for what they’ve achieved,” Mr Casserly said.“We’ve grown up
through Harcourts and I think they must be quite proud of what we’ve achieved.”

NS

RE
PUB
AN

cgenpr : Generic Products | c31 : Marketing | cbrand : Branding | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News |
ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document ADVTSR0020140131ea21000bx

Page111of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.