Foreign breaches ‘too hard’ to police

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

TheNation
Foreign breaches ‘too hard’ to police

STEFANIE BALOGH
409 words
30 August 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian3
4
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

THE foreign investment watchdog has denied the regulator is failing to do its job, even though it has
not prosecuted any overseas investor for unlawfully buying established Australian homes.
The Foreign Investment Review Board has investigated 21 recent allegations of suspect foreign
investment in established housing, stemming from “dob ins” and media reports, but has found no
breaches.

FIRB chairman Brian Wilson and Treasury officials yesterday appeared before parliament’s standing
committee on economics inquiry into foreign investment in residential real estate. The addressed
criticism they were guilty of lax oversight.

The Weekend Australian has revealed previously that the FIRB, which sits within Treasury, has not
prosecuted a single foreign investor for an illegal purchase since 2007 despite a surge of purchases
by overseas buyers.

Liberal committee member Peter Hendy said: “One way you could put this is, we’ve uncovered a law
that nobody ever breaches, and I’m amazed that that’s the case.

“The other way to look at it is that it’s not been administered to the degree that it should be happening.
It’s one of the two.’’ Mr Wilson suggested a third explanation: it was a law where the detection of a
breach was “extraordinarily difficult’’.

“Where we have done the work, we have not found breaches. Where we find a breach, we have acted
and I appreciate … that action hasn’t been prosecutions, but it has been to attempt to regularise the
position,’’ he said. “The key difficulty is detecting the breach.” Guidelines were changed in 2010 to
contain foreign investors to off-the-plan developments. There are 33 investigations underway into
potentially illegal investment in the established market, and critics argue FIRB is a “toothless tiger’’.

Mr Wilson said he did not believe FIRB needed additional enforcement powers but the difficulty was
one of “data capture’’ and a question of how many extra resources would be appropriate to identify
those who were “acting outside the system or deliberately obfuscating their identity or involvement’’.

The committee is looking at a series of changes, including identifying nationality during the process of
title transfer, levying application fees for gaining FIRB approval and increasing stamp duty for foreign
buyersMeanwhile, Joe Hockey yesterday signalled a more liberal approach to investment from China’s
state-owned enterprises in Australia, citing reforms that have made them “subject to greater market
discipline, and are more accountable for their performance’’.

NS
RE
PUB

gcrim : Crime/Courts | gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.

Page52of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AN

Document AUSTLN0020140831ea8u00005

Page53of405©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.