What's news

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

What's news

840 words
8 August 2014
China Daily-US Edition
CDUSDE
19
English
Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Company. All rights reserved.

NZ tourism industry aims to lure Chinese in Australia
Chinese living in Australia will be targeted in a New Zealand tourism campaign funded by the New
Zealand government and the China Travel Service, New Zealand Prime Minister and Tourism Minister
John Key announced on Thursday. China Travel Service (NZ) Ltd was being given NZ$50,000
($42,300) toward a yearlong campaign in partnership with New Zealand Maori Tourism with a budget of
NZ$100, 000 to promote New Zealand as a holiday destination.

Shale gas forecasts lowered amid exploration challenges
Experts have halved the volume of shale gas that China is likely to produce by 2020 after early
exploration efforts to unlock the unconventional fuel proved challenging, according to an industry
website and a government source. Citing Wu Xinxiong, head of the National Energy Administration,
industry website www.cpnn.com.cn reported that China aims to pump 30 billion cubic meters of shale
gas by 2020, compared with an earlier goal of 60 to 80 bcm.

CICC chooses sponsors for HK offering, sources say
China International Capital Corp, the country's first investment bank, picked ABC International Holdings
Ltd and CCB International (Holdings) Ltd as joint sponsors for an initial public offering in Hong Kong,
said people with knowledge of the matter. The share sale will value CICC at more than $3 billion, said
the people, who asked not to be identified because the information is private.

Yuan strengthens ahead of trade statistics for July

The yuan advanced on Thursday to the strongest level since March before a report forecast to show
that exports rose for a fourth month. Overseas shipments climbed 7 percent from a year earlier in July,
compared with 7.2 percent in June, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey. The
nation's trade balance, to be announced on Friday, will probably be in surplus for a fifth month, the
survey showed.

Key rate eases on PBOC's stable monetary policy
China's benchmark money-market rate fell for a fifth day as the central bank reiterated it will work to
lower corporate financing costs to help spur economic growth. The People's Bank of China will keep
monetary policy stable and continue to adopt targeted measures to provide financial support to rural
areas and small businesses, according to a statement on its website on Wednesday, citing a meeting
attended by branch chiefs and led by Governor Zhou Xiaochuan.

Banks launch structured yuan products for clients

Several banks launched structured currency option products denominated in yuan for corporate clients
in China in the past week, after the central government eased controls on yuan derivatives this month.
Those tools will offer importers and exporters more sophisticated financial instruments to hedge
currency risk against the backdrop of a more volatile yuan this year.
China Unicom's H1 income rises on 3G, 4G business

Page145of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd, the Hong Kong unit of the country's second-biggest wireless carrier,
said first-half net income rose 26 percent to 6.7 billion yuan ($1.09 billion) as sales from its mobile
third- and fourth-generation businesses jumped by one-third. Revenue rose 3.6 percent to 149.6 billion
yuan, China Unicom said on Thursday.
Audi sales up 9.7% in July on China, Brazil, US demand

Germany's Audi AG said sales rose 9.7 percent in July to 144,000 luxury cars and sport-utility vehicles,
powered by double-digit gains in the United States, Brazil and China. Seven-month deliveries at the
world's second-largest luxury carmaker increased 11 percent to a record 1.013 million autos, the
Volkswagen-owned manufacturer said on Thursday, citing demand for the A3 compact and the A6
saloon.
IBM offers cloud-based services to Chinese firms

International Business Machines Corp said on Thursday that it would provide cloud-based risk analysis
for a Chinese financial data firm. Under the new software deployment model, financial data provider
Shanghai Wind Information will send publicly available data to IBM's cloud for risk analysis without
having to disclose specific portfolio holdings or having to install IBM software or hardware on its
servers.
Australian port sees record iron ore shipments to China
Iron ore exports to China from Australia's Port Hedland climbed to a record last month, adding to signs
that demand for overseas supplies in the world's biggest user may be improving as local output is
displaced. Shipments to China stood at 30.6 million metric tons in July, up from 29.2 million tons in
June, data on the port authority's website showed.

Huaxia Bank reports 19% gain in H1 net to 8.7b yuan
Huaxia Bank Co Ltd reported first-half net profit of 8.67 billion yuan ($1.4 billion), up 18.8 percent.
Total assets stood at 1.78 trillion yuan as of June 30, up 6.34 percent from the beginning of the year,
according to the bank's interim report released on Wednesday.

Xinhua-Bloomberg-Reuters

CO
IN
RE

PUB
AN

chints : China Travel Service
itourm : Tourism | ilea : Leisure/Arts/Hospitality | i77001 : Travel Agencies
nz : New Zealand | china : China | hkong : Hong Kong | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz :
Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging
Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
China Daily Information Company
Document CDUSDE0020140808ea880000i

Page146of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.