No bull, Highbury retreat a tale to heed

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

MarketWatch
No bull, Highbury retreat a tale to heed

DAVID ROGERS
508 words
22 October 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
32
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

It’s unusual for investment banks to walk away from corporate fees, so when boutique advisory firm
Highbury Partnership cancelled an attempted sale of a $600 million stake in Veda Group for Pacific
Equity Partners late on Monday it raised a few eyebrows.

It may have been a bit optimistic for PEP to try and sell another 30 per cent of the listed-credit
reporting group at the same price that it sold a 33 per cent stake in the company via Macquarie on
August 27. After all, the broader market is more than 5 per cent lower than it was in late August.

But while the S & P/ASX200 recovered more than 4 per cent in the past week, the market still seems
nervous. In a bull market, PEP would have easily sold its remaining stake in Veda.

Investors have been buying the local market recently because they believe it’s cheap after it fell 10 per
cent from its August peak, and the Australian dollar fell 7 per cent in the same period.

Based on current earnings estimates, the S & P/ASX200 is now trading on about 14 times expected
earnings per share for 2015, about 3.5 per cent below the long-term average.

However, if economic growth is weaker than expected, earnings will disappoint. Under that scenario,
what looks like a bargain price-to-earnings ratio for the broader market might prove illusory.
Lower energy prices will help the major economies, but global economic growth expectations remain
in a downgrade cycle. That’s not to say the growth outlook is bleak or that there’s anything like the
subprime lending crisis on the horizon, but the simple fact is that asset prices globally have been
inflated by the most aggressive money printing the world has ever seen, and the final outcome is
unknown.

US Federal Reserve minutes recently cautioned that weaker offshore growth and a stronger US dollar
could crimp US growth, and while some Fed officials subsequently backed away from plans to end
quantitative easing this month and start lifting interest rates next year, the market may now be
disappointed if the Fed winds up its QE at next week’s meeting.
China does have potential for further monetary easing, but such action hasn’t stopped China’s
slowdown in recent years. The world’s No 2 economy is expected to lower its GDP growth rate to 7.0
per cent next year, the lowest since 1990.
China’s GDP growth slowed from 7.5 per cent to 7.3 per cent in the third quarter, a touch above
market expectations, but extreme pollution probably means China needs to slow further.That leaves
the focus on Europe and Japan to try and inspire the world with their own quantitative easing
programs, but investors don’t seem to have a lot of faith in the ability of European and Japanese
officials to keep their respective economies out of a deflationary spiral.

CO

datadv : Veda Group Ltd | peprt : Pacific Equity Partners

Page266of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150203 : Private Equity |
i8395416 : Credit Rating Services | ialtinv : Alternative Investments | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal :
Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
e1101 : Economic Growth | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141021eaam0003s

Page267of290©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.