Australian Shares May Fall on Commodity Price Weakness -- Market Talk

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Australian Shares May Fall on Commodity Price Weakness -- Market Talk

1,544 words
9 December 2014
09:30
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

2230 GMT - Australia's equities market looks set to hand back some of last session's bank-driven gains
as global growth concerns continue to weigh on commodity prices. IG predicts an opening fall of 0.5% to
about 5350 for the ASX 200, with the possibility of some profit taking in the banks. Energy stocks could
echo the fall seen by their US counterparts on slumping oil prices, while mining stocks could come under
pressure following a drop in the iron-ore price and in the wake of Chinese trade data. IG market
strategist Stan Shamu says Qantas (QAN.AU) will be one to watch to see if its stock can fly higher. ASX
200 ended Monday up 0.7% at 5372.7. (robb.stewart@wsj.com; @RobbMStewart)

17:28 EST - Brick and mortar retail isn't irrelevant yet, says David Simon, CEO of Simon Property
(SPG), the largest US mall owner: you just have to look overseas. "Malls are dead because nobody's
building them" in the US, Mr. Simon said during a panel discussion at the International Council of
Shopping Center's annual New York confab. But developers are building them in Brazil, India, China,
Indonesia and elsewhere. "The Chinese are smart," he added. "So why are they building all these
malls?" SPG has been increasing its retail real estate holdings in Europe during the last year through its
sizable stake in French shopping center companyKlepierre. (robbie.whelan@wsj.com; @RWhelanWSJ)

17:24 EST - BMO Capital Markets says Toronto housing starts have faded below 30K annualized units in
the 12 months through November, well below the 10-year trend. It also says the full-year tally for 2014
will likely be the lowest for a non-recession year since 1998. Where's the overbuilding that so concerns
some analysts? BMO says there isn't any anymore: household formation in Canada's biggest city is in
the neighborhood of 35K a year. "That said, there is still a large number of condos under construction
(68K), reflecting the surge in starts through 2012/2013," BMO says. "The good news now is that, while
that wave may take some time to get fully absorbed, there's not a lot of new supply following behind it."
(don.curren@wsj.com; @dbcurren)

17:20 EST - With WSJ reporting that IronFX Global is lining up a possible 2015 US IPO, it seems next
year could be shaping up as another big one for IPOs in the capital markets sector. High-frequency
trading outfit Virtu Financial delayed its listing last year amid controversy over the practice, but in selling
a small stake to sovereign wealth fund Temasek, it could be signaling a fresh IPO attempt next year. And
investment bank Houlihan Lokey is on the record saying it's been exploring an IPO. The economic
rebound and return of volatility could finally help to definitively lift the lid on a sector that's been bottled up
since the financial crisis, with IPOs for Liquidnet, BATS Global Markets and Imperial Capital all shelved
for various reasons. (telis.demos@wsj.com; @telisdemos)

17:13 EST - Judge Thomas Wheeler in the US Court of Federal Claims in Washington, DC, has set April
7 as the date for closing arguments in the AIG-bailout lawsuit brought by the insurer's former and
long-time CEO, Maurice R. "Hank" Greenberg. Testimony in the bench trial ended Nov. 24, and Wheeler
last month set deadlines in February and March for various legal briefs. The capital's cherry trees
typically are at peak bloom in mid-April, so the crowd arriving to hear famous litigator David Boies
summarize Greenberg's case will have something else special to see in the city. (leslie.scism@wsj.com)

16:59 EST - One bright spot in Netflix's (NFLX) costly global expansion: Netflix viewers abroad tend to
like US shows. Netflix Chief Content Officer Ted Sarandos says at a UBS Securities investor conference
today that the top 25 shows on the service "tend to be very similar" across territories, meaning that
expansion will give Netflix "some scale in our ability to license content around the world at the same
time." Already, the streaming service has struck global licensing deals for shows like Warner Bros.'

Page36of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Batman prequel "Gotham," and Sarandos says "House of Cards" and "Orange is the New Black" are
already popular in China -- a territory Netflix hasn't even entered yet. (shalini.ramachandran@wsj.com;
@shaliniwsj)

16:56 EST - U.S. workers should expect health care to take a bigger bite out of their paychecks next
year, BofA/Merrill says. Finance chiefs at US companies expect the Affordable Care Act to increase
health-care costs next year, and the majority expect to pass that along to employees. BofA surveyed 602
CFOs and other finance executives at companies with $25M-$2B in annual revenue. Of those, 69%
expected labor costs to rise to cover costs of ACA. The CFOs expected an average increase of 7.1%.
More than three-quarters of the CFOs said they'd pass those costs along to employees, and almost
two-thirds said they'd cut spending in other parts of the business to compensate. Half would raise prices
to pay for the healthcare. (vipal.monga@wsj.com; @vipalmonga)

2152 GMT - Big Australian banks' valuations are looking attractive and regional banks expensive in light
of a government-backed review of the country's financial system, JPMorgan says. Ahead of the review's
recommendations, released Sunday, the majors were trading on an about 10% valuation discount, which
the brokerage says is reconciled by the return-on-equity drag associated with expectations the lenders
will have to raise capital levels and mortgage risk-weight floors. But JPMorgan expects profitability to be
little changed thanks to the use of dividend reinvestment plans and the cost-of-funds tailwind the banks
are enjoying. On the other hand, it says the benefits that some investors had anticipated the regional
lenders would enjoy aren't likely to be as great. (robb.stewart@wsj.com; @RobbMStewart)

16:43 EST - Are fines on companies really getting bigger or are federal prosecutors giving corporate
baddies a cost-of-doing-business slap on the wrist? Depending on what side of the bar you are talking to
you'll hear both criticisms. Turns out both may be correct. University of Virginia researcher Brandon
Garrett crunched data from two decades of corporate settlements. He says that corporate fines are in
fact getting bigger on average but that rise is caused disproportionately by a few high-profile settlements.
In 47% if cases that prosecutors settle with companies, there's no criminal fine at all, he says.
(joel.schectman@dowjones.com)
16:38 EST - The fall in oil isn't the only factor making waves in energy lately. London-based trading firm
CF Partners Asset Management LLP was forced to liquidate its $150M utility-focused hedge fund, selling
positions in stocks like wind turbine maker Gamesa Corporacion Tecnologica, after its chief investment
officer resigned at the end of October, people familiar with the matter said. "The migration [to cash] was
straightforward and was executed in an orderly fashion," reads an investor update viewed by WSJ. CF
Partners hopes to restart trading in the fund next year, a firm representative says.
(rob.copeland@wsj.com; @realrobcopeland)

16:35 EST - H&R Block (HRB) posts a wider-than-expected fiscal 2Q adjusted loss and revenue falls
short of estimates in the seasonally weak period for the tax preparation service. CEO Bill Cobb says the
company has made investments "which will enable us to improve the customer experience and operate
more productively in the coming years." HRB's tax services revenues rose 1% on higher tax prep fees
and "improved off season usage of the H&R Block Prepaid MasterCard, the Emerald Card." HRB slides
6.7% to $31.75 after hours, trimming some of the 17% YTD gain through today's close.
(patrick.sullivan@wsj.com)
16:27 EST - Corporate payment company WEX has been doing some buying recently, inking deals with
health-care tech companyEvolution1 and Exxon Mobil's (XOM) European commercial fuel card
program. CEO Melissa Smith says she's open to more acquisitions next year -- deals that would help the
company scale, break into new industries or acquire new products. "Rather than building something,
we'll buy it," she said in an interview today. But she acknowledged that getting bigger can impact the
internal dynamic of a firm. "I don't want the company to get stiff as we get larger," she said. She's trying
to maintain "that sense of fun and intimacy" with little touches, from tweaks to office design (more glass,
more open spaces, employee photographs decorating the walls) to meetings (mixing up the order of the
agenda, having bands play.) "It's a way of getting people to not feel like they're in the middle of a
routine," she said. (rachel.feintzeig@wsj.com; @rachelfeintzeig)

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

December 08, 2014 17:30 ET (22:30 GMT)

IN

NS

i6560011 : Shopping Malls/Superstores | i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | imet :
Mining/Quarrying | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i656 : Mixed Retailing | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources |
iretail : Retail
mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | mirono : Iron Ore Markets | namt : All Market Talk | ndjmt :
Dow Jones Market Talk | nenac : Energy Asset Class News | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | m14 :

Page37of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Commodity Markets | m142 : Metals Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E
Exclusion Filter
austr : Australia | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North
America

RE

PUB Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
AN

Document DJDN000020141208eac8003ym

Page38of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.