FOREIGN FUNDS SET TO POUR IN

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
FOREIGN FUNDS SET TO POUR IN

Olga Galacho
383 words
16 July 2014
Herald-Sun
HERSUN
HeraldSun
46
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

COMMERCIAL PROPERTY AUSTRALIAN commercial property markets should brace for greater
foreign investment following the regulatory nod for Asian insurance companies to spend up on real
estate outside their jurisdictions, a new report shows.
Already, several Chinese insurers have been bidding competitively on Australian assets, although a
direct purchase has yet to be made, agents CBRE said.

The CBRE report shows the value of Asian insurers’ property assets will increase by $US75 billion to
around $US205 billion in the next five years. But even this number is dwarfed by the value of their
total assets in 2013 of $US6.7 trillion, which is held largely in liquid investments.
The report singles out China, South Korea and Taiwan as the biggest spenders of offshore properties
so far, thanks to investment constraints having recently been eased by regulators.

Up until now, overseas deals have focused on trophy investments in major capitals, such as London’s
Lloyd’s building, which was snapped up for $US142 million by China’s Ping An Insurance last year.

CBRE says that several Asian insurers have made numerous visits to acquaint themselves with
Melbourne and Sydney commercial property markets.
The firm’s international investments chief, Rick Butler, says there are signs that a watering down of
Asian regulations is translating to increased activity by insurance companies that want to balance
portfolios with more real estate.

“The expectation is that these funds will show significant interest in the Australian market,” Mr Butler
said.
CBRE senior Victorian director Mark Coster added Chinese insurers who had expressed interest in
local assets were as competitive as other bidders.

“CBRE is dealing with a couple of groups that have been bidding on assets and several others that
are considering Australian investments,” Mr Coster said.
He added that landmark commercial office buildings in CBDs were of particular interest to the
potential buyers .

The report shows Melbourne in sixth on the list of Asian investors’ top 10 cross-border destinations
last year, with Sydney third behind London and New York.Chinese insurers are expected to be
particularly active overseas given their sheer size, said the report. The data points to substantial room
for growth given that the mainland’s underwriters have just 1 per cent of funds parked in property.

NS

ereal : Real Estate Markets | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News

Page241of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

PUB
AN

austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document HERSUN0020140715ea7g0000f

Page242of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.