Gold Coast Bulletin EDITORIAL Confidence in the Coast again

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Gold Coast Bulletin EDITORIAL Confidence in the Coast again

663 words
17 May 2014
Gold Coast Bulletin
GCBULL
GoldCoast
56
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

IF reinvention and rejuvenation are cornerstones in the success of the tourism industry, then the Gold
Coast economy looks set for a huge lift.
As the Bulletin reports today, Singaporean hotel giant Banyan Tree Group has paid $11.5 million for
two beachfront blocks in Surfers Paradise and intends building a five-star hotel – the first in the city
since the global financial crisis rocked the world economy. This is good news for a city that relies so
heavily on the tourism and events dollar.

The Surfers Paradise skyline has taken on a dramatic and pleasing change in recent years with the
addition of the Hilton and Soul towers, which were planned before the GFC struck but to their credit, the
investors honoured their commitment.

Those projects and this latest announcement by Banyan Tree have been a huge vote of confidence in
the Gold Coast’s reputation as a major destination, in the city’s drawcards that keep visitors coming,
and in the city, state and national economies.
What makes this plan to build a major resort-hotel in the heart of the tourism capital all the more
exciting is the fact it comes hot on the heels of another huge development plan reported by the Bulletin
yesterday – a multimillion-dollar resort and lifestyle precinct planned by a Chinese developer, known
simply as Mr Cao, for the former Star of the Sea Convent site at Southport.
The developer’s company, Xi’an Wen-Hua Industrial Co based in the city of Xi’an – home of the
famous Terracotta Warriors that protected a huge necropolis built for the Emperor Qin more than 2000
years ago – is in the process of acquiring the 1.5ha Southport landholding and has lodged an
application to turn it into a multi-use precinct featuring highrise towers with shopping and dining areas,
offices, education facilities, and resort and permanent-living accommodation.

Observers say Southport’s priority development area status should see that development fast-tracked.

People often say a big city’s health can be gauged by the number of cranes on the skyline. With these
projects and many others approved and in the pipeline, the Gold Coast is in great shape.

Event’s not a great way to mend fences TUGUN’S community needs healing, not another beachfront
march that is being hailed as a “thank you’’ event but looks more like a way of rubbing victory in the
faces of property owners who came off second best in a recent foreshore stoush.

It is also puzzling how anything up to 600 people tramping through the dunes, apparently all the way
between Bilinga and Tugun, will not damage the flora and dune structure vital to preserving the stretch
of beach and the homes, accommodation houses and commercial businesses along Golden Four
Drive.

On the one hand the Bulletin supports the Oceanway project that has been a part of this contentious
issue.

Page4of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.A pedestrian pathway along the full extent of the city’s coastline would be a major asset for locals and
tourists, creating one of the world’s great “must-do’’ scenic treks. Importantly, a constructed path would
protect the surrounding vegetation.

The paper also supported the case against selling off the public land along the beachfront. But it cannot
support continued sniping between the parties involved in this dispute and, given the State Government
decided the land would not be sold, urges the community to mend fences – as it were – and leave
animosities behind instead of dreaming up new excuses to engage in what the rest of the city just sees
as provocation.

Friends of Currumbin, along with scores of outsiders who supported the original cause, won the battle
when the Government made its decision in February. But the issue had turned ugly, with worrying
confrontations between protesters and property owners leading police to step in.The city does not
need or want a repeat of this.

IN
NS
RE
PUB
AN

itourm : Tourism | ilea : Leisure/Arts/Hospitality
gtour : Travel | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document GCBULL0020140518ea5h0000f

Page5of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.