Coca-Cola Amatil Valuation Attractive Despite Risks, Citi Says -- Market Talk

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Coca-Cola Amatil Valuation Attractive Despite Risks, Citi Says -- Market Talk

1,521 words
15 August 2014
09:28
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

2328 GMT [Dow Jones]--Citi backs its Buy rating on Coca-Cola Amatil (CCL.AU) despite strategic risks.
"Australia has seen a sharp decline in EBIT, but this division could turn out to be the least of
management's worries going forward," the broker says. It sees downside risk to consensus expectations
of earnings recovery in Indonesia, weak Jim Beam & Cola sales, and a disappointing FY14 earnings
outlook. "Despite the short-term risks, the stock represents attractive fundamental value," the broker
says. "Structural concerns are over-done and concerns around pricing are overdone. Strategic certainty
and more upbeat commentary by management will signal the inflection point for investors to gain comfort
in the stock." CCL last A$9.54. (david.rogers@wsj.com; Twitter: @DavidRogersWSJ)

2324 GMT [Dow Jones] The USD/JPY will likely trade in a 102.30-102.70 range in Asia, with
risk-sentiment improving amid fading concerns over geopolitical risks, says Shinji Kureda, head of FX
trading group at Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. "People are mindful of the 200-day moving average,
which is now around 102.30," Mr. Kureda says. The pair is at 102.48 vs 102.45 in late New York trade
Thursday. Daily commercial transaction is also somewhat in favor of dollar buying, he adds.
Meanwhile, the upside will be limited amid a lack of fresh cues due to the traditional summer holiday.
The EUR/USD is tipped in a 1.3330-1.3380 range, with bias on the downside. It is steady at 1.3362.
(tatsuo.ito@wsj.com)
23:23 GMT [Dow Jones] Thermal coal futures prices are falling back below $70 a ton despite a step up
in Chinese power-plant burn rates amid recent high temperatures: The first 10 days of August, Chinese
thermal coal consummation rose 4% on year to 3.6 million tons a day, says Australia New Zealand
Banking Group. The data are in line with Australian government's report released yesterday that bulk
commodity's soft prices are due to increased supply and demand from China has been stable.
(Mari.iwata@wsj.com)
2322 GMT [Dow Jones] InterOil (IOC), the U.S. company planning to build an LNG plant in Papua New
Guinea, could be a takeover target, with Exxon (XOM), Woodside (WPL.AU), Total (TOT) and Oil
Search (OSH.AU) all possible bidders, says Bernstein Research. "Exxon have the most to gain given
synergies with PNG LNG, with Oil Search being another possibility, although funding would be an issue,"
its analysts say. "If Total believe in the upside reserves case, a buy-out of InterOil would make financial
sense," it adds. "Woodside who are actively looking for LNG companies in the US$3 billion-to-US$5
billion range, would also likely be interested in this asset." It has an outperform call and US$90/share
target on InterOil vs its last trade of US$57.12. (Ross.Kelly@wsj.com)

23:16 GMT [Dow Jones] Australia & New Zealand Banking's (ANZ.AU) nine-month trading update was
on the whole weaker than expected on a cash earnings basis, says Omkar Joshi, investment analyst at
Watermarket Funds Management. The quality of the bank's performance in the period was relatively low
given the strong lift it received from a materially lower bad-debt charge, he adds. The bank now forecasts
full-year bad debts being 12% lower than in fiscal 2013 against previous guidance of a 10% decline.
Joshi says this implies a bad-debt charge of A$279 million for the fourth quarter. ANZ's net interest
margin has also come under pressure. ANZ last traded at A$32.74. (robb.stewart@wsj.com; Twitter:
@RobbMStewart)
2311 GMT [Dow Jones] Direct marketing company Salmat (SLM.AU) has cut its FY14 Ebitda guidance
three times since November, as it continues a strategic overhaul that Credit Suisse thinks has further to
go. "We continue to see a downside risk to near-term earnings expectations from increased investment

Page131of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.and higher operating costs," says the broker, which has cut its price target by 9.7% to A$1.85/share.
While Salmat has long-term opportunities, Credit Suisse retains a neutral call given uncertainty around
the structural growth in online advertising and catalog volumes, and continued competitive pressures.
The broker also thinks it's too early to draw a conclusion on Salmat's ability to execute on its digital
strategy that sees the business more aligned to an IT services and integration company. SLM last
traded at A$1.76. (david.winning@wsj.com; @dwinningWSJ)

18:19 EDT - Activist investor William Ackman, of Pershing Square Capital Management LP, isn't known
for being shy. But he's been relatively quiet on his big bet on the common stock of Fannie Mae (FNMA)
and Freddie Mac (FMCC), an attempt to benefit from the U.S. housing recovery. That changed today
when Pershing sued the U.S. government over the changes it made in 2012 to its bailout terms of FNMA
and FMCC. So why break the silence? One possible reason: a three-year statute of limitations that
applies to FMCC. The suit, which three individual investors have joined, makes sure common
shareholders have a seat at the table. (juliet.chung@wsj.com)

18:07 EDT - Bill Ackman's Pershing Square Capital files a lawsuit against the U.S. government and
Fannie Mae (FNMA) and Freddie Mac (FMCC), joining other big investors in challenging revised bailout
terms for Fannie and Freddie. But where the other suits focus on the rights of preferred shareholders,
Pershing's suit focuses on the treatment of common shareholders. At issue are the 2012 bailout terms
that force the firms to send all of their profits to the U.S. Treasury. While suits against the government
can be expensive, time-consuming propositions, they can result in victories (think of the holdout creditors
in Argentina). (juliet.chung@wsj.com)

-0-

New York hedge fund

18:05 EDT - A representative of Skolkovo, the technology hub outside Moscow sponsored by the
Russian government, said he hopes that despite the recent tensions between Western and Russian
governments, international projects would continue strong. "We should be very active in international
collaboration projects, including engagement of international researchers, entrepreneurs, investors," said
Vasily Belov, senior vice president, innovations development at Skolkovo Foundation. The political
tensions just highlight the necessity of increased "cultural exchange and cooperation," he said. Several
major US firms and institutions, including Cisco (CSCO), Intel (INTC) and the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, have partnered with Skolkovo-related projects over the years. (yuliya.chernova@wsj.com)

18:01 EDT - In May, when the FCC says it was reserving a smaller slice of airwaves than previously
planned for companies like Sprint and T-Mobile in a 2015 spectrum auction, the carriers were secretly
giddy. At the time, they were working on plans to merge, and a smaller reserve appeared to help their
case. Now that Sprint has abandoned plans to buy its smaller rival, however, those rules are a problem.
T-Mobile this week asked the FCC to increase the amount of spectrum reserved for smaller carriers. If
the rules aren't changed, AT&T and Verizon will only increase their industry dominance, T-Mobile says.
(ryan.knutson@wsj.com; @ryan_knutson)
17:57 EDT - Southeast US residential real estate brokers and homebuilders reported home sales
cooled off slightly in July vs June, according to a survey released by the Atlanta Fed. About 57% of
brokers surveyed said sales were up in July vs a year earlier, down from 60% of those surveyed in June
who said sales were up from 12 months earlier. Fifty-one percent of builders reported that sales were up
in July from the same month in 2013, down from 63% in June. The survey of 40 residential brokers and
19 homebuilders was conducted from July 7 through July 16. (cameron.mcwhirter@wsj.com)

17:55 EDT - Just how important is the speed of snail mail in the age of the Internet? Half of the Senate is
trying to keep the US Postal Service from closing 82 mail-sorting facilities, which would slow down the
delivery of some first-class and periodical mail. About 14% of first-class mail volume would shift from
overnight to two-day delivery. The USPS argues it needs to shut down the facilities to save $750M in
annual costs, thanks to its precarious financial situation. It adds that it has already consolidated 141 mail
processing facilities with a "negligible service impact" to generate annual cost savings of $865M.
(laura.stevens@wsj.com; @LauraStevensWSJ)

To contact the Market Talk Editors,
Kevin Kingsbury, 212 416-2354, kevin.kingsbury@wsj.com
Cynthia Lin, 212 416-4403, Cynthia.lin@wsj.com
John Shipman, 212 416-2181, john.shipman@wsj.com
Patrick Sullivan, 212 416-2326, Patrick.sullivan@wsj.com

Page132of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.(END) Dow Jones Newswires

August 14, 2014 19:28 ET (23:28 GMT)

CO
IN

NS

amtl : Coca-Cola Amatil Ltd | coca : The Coca-Cola Company
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i428 : Soft Drinks | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods
| inonal : Non-alcoholic Beverages/Drinks
namt : All Market Talk | ndjmt : Dow Jones Market Talk | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nfiac :
Fixed Income Asset Class News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
AN

Document DJDN000020140814ea8e004fz

Page133of351©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.