Plenty of takeover targets ripe for picking

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Plenty of takeover targets ripe for picking

TONY KAYE EUREKA REPORT
659 words
1 February 2014
The Advertiser
ADVTSR
Advertiser
76
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

IF ALL the financial forecasts are correct, the conditions are just right for a surge in the number and
size of corporate takeover deals across Australia in 2014.
An acceleration of the global economic recovery, rising business confidence, a lower Australian dollar,
and a growing list of cashed-up corporate investors eager to buy up premium, undervalued assets
around the world, is likely to propel merger and acquisition activity.

Add to this factors such as low interest rates and improved funding options, and general expectations
that the Australian economy will slow to some degree making organic growth harder to come by – and
growth by acquisition could appear very attractive for some companies.

Takeover deals will come in all shapes and sizes, with some hostile and others representing a meeting
of corporate minds. Cashed-up private equity firms and venture funds, including from the US and
Europe, are likely to be among the key takeover players.

Foreign companies are keen to invest here – a fact that will no doubt keep the decision makers at the
Foreign Investment Review Board busy. The FIRB was tested last year when it scrutinised, and
subsequently rejected, a $3.4 billion offer for grain co-operative GrainCorp by Canada’s Archer
Daniels Midland. It deemed it not to be in the national interest.
But scores of other foreign bids have been approved, including a large number emanating from China.
Just in the last few days, the Canadian dairy giant Saputo has tightened its takeover hold on Victoria’s
Warrnambool Cheese & Butter – with its $530 million deal enough to stave off stiff competition from
Australian bidding rivals Bega Cheese and the Murray Goulburn Co-operative.
Figures just released by the research firm Dealogic show a total of 1393 M&A deals involving
Australian companies, with a combined value of $US86 billion, were announced last year.
The biggest was the $7.5 billion acquisition of Singapore Power’s Australian energy assets by State
Grid, China’s key power distributor, followed by the $7 billion restructure of the Westfield property
group, and the $5.3 billion sale of Port Botany and Port Kembla.

More big deals are on the cards, with infrastructure assets one of the biggest areas identified as the
federal and state governments move to privatise industrial operations ranging from electricity
generation and distribution networks to hospitals, roads, railway lines and rolling stock, to ports.
While some experts are predicting that the mining sector won’t be a major area of takeover activity,
the devaluing effect of lower prices for some metals commodities and a lower Australian dollar will put
many resources companies firmly into the bidding zone.

Indeed, of the current takeover deals under way involving Australian-listed companies, a high
percentage relate to mining companies.

Page112of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Takeovers specialist Tom Elliott this week named in Eureka Report three listed companies that he has
on his radar screen as hot buys. They include a listed mortgage broker, an online travel bookings
company, and a major oil and gas producer.
Elliott has an extremely good takeovers record. In fact, he specifically named Warrnambool Cheese &
Butter as one his strong takeover targets in September last year – the day before Bega launched a
surprise bid for the company.

Now, he says, it’s time for Warrnambool shareholders to enjoy the cream. “At $9.43 per share, WCB
shareholders should take their money and look for the next opportunity in the agricultural space,” Elliott
says.

But there are plenty of potential takeover deals in other sectors. It’s a case of picking the trends and
buying into the opportunities.

This article is part of Eureka Report’s ‘It’s Time’ special series, in which we reveal winning investment
strategies to accelerate your portfolio in 2014.TONY KAYE IS THE EDITOR OF EUREKA REPORT.
READ MORE BY TONY KAYE AND OTHER EXPERTS AT WWW.EUREKAREPORT.COM.AU

NS

RE
PUB
AN

c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cacqu : Acquisitions | npred : Economic Predictions/Forecasts
| c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document ADVTSR0020140131ea21000aq

Page113of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.