Big banks rethink dealmaking strategies in Asia

HD
BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY

LP

TD

Big banks rethink dealmaking strategies in Asia

By Jennifer Hughes in Hong Kong
837 words
3 June 2014
21:02
Financial Times (FT.Com)
FTCOM
English
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and
redistribute by email or post to the web.

Matt Hanning piled out of his family car in a hurry and into Sydney's Shangri-La hotel where he was
greeted by Kuok Khoon Hong. The scion of Malaysia's Kuok family and chief executive of Wilmar, the
agribusiness group, was in town looking to buy Australia's Goodman Fielder.

Mr Hanning, a veteran UBS dealmaker, had been on holiday with his family an hour north of the city and
scrambled to make the meeting after a cab failed to turn up. That gave Mr Kuok just time to introduce Mr
Hanning to a room of executives before he departed for the airport, leaving the group to put together the
plan.

Wilmar's late-April A$1.4bn bid alongside First Pacific, an investment vehicle backed by Indonesia's
Salim family, was always going to be worth watching. It involves a first-time tie-up between venerable
southeast Asian dynasties (the Kuoks own the Shangri-La hotel group among other interests; Salim
investments include telecoms, property, banking and food brands) whose sprawling empires look like
dream fodder for investment bankers.

The deal, however, also illustrates the unchanging importance in Asia of long-term relationships. Mr
Hanning might have had to wrest his attention from the beach to the boardroom while facing a roomful of
strangers, but as the banker who first piqued Wilmar's interest in Goodman two years earlier, he knew
the background.

As the big banks ponder their future in a region once considered the industry's great hope for fee growth,
few of them have the appetite, or the support, to continue building such ties in the hope of profiting at
some point in the future. Regulators and investors are far more interested in the here and now. One
senior figure puts it in trading terms: "Now you need to play for spot [instant delivery]. A lot of people in
Asia have in effect been playing the forwards market."

A series of senior investment banking job moves in the region in the past month suggests the terrain is
shifting. Among them, Citigroup's regional investment bank head, Farhan Faruqui, has left to join ANZ.
HSBC's Russell Julius, head of banking for Asia-Pacific, is returning to London. Barclays has seen a
stream of departures and moves since it announced plans to slash a quarter of its global investment
banking headcount. More job losses will be announced this week. At UBS, Mr Hanning last week became
head of Asia-Pacific investment banking, replacing Matthew Grounds, the bank's star Australian
dealmaker who dropped his global responsibilities to focus back home.

There is no single theme linking all the moves - and there is of course a personal element involved. But
the lack of a theme suggests that banks are thinking more carefully about their strategy instead of
accumulating bankers in the belief that fees would follow.

Some groups focus on how Asia fits into their global operations. Barclays will cut its headcount but not
the number of countries it operates in. The bank doesn't give financial performance for the region, but net
profits seem unlikely: the industry assumption is that the top three banks by fees are profitable and the
next three might break even. Barclays' best ranking in the past five years is 13th, according to Dealogic.
Still, a third of its top clients are Asia-domiciled, implying the region is an integral part of its bigger US and
UK-based operations.

Page49of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The tabular content relating to this article is not available to view. Apologies in advance for the
inconvenience caused.
<>Other banks, including HSBC and ANZ, are focusing on business stemming from their commercial
banking strongholds. UBS meanwhile has a broader investment banking franchise and tends to rank first
or second for the region. But it also has a particular dominance in Australia - which Mr Grounds' new
focus should buttress.

Strategies may be diverging, but some things stay the same. All bankers now stress the importance of
balance sheet discipline and targeting only profitable activity. The spot vs forwards message appears to
have been understood - that is, until deals loom. The same week that Mr Hanning scrambled to help
Wilmar, WH Group, the Sino-US pork producer, was forced to pull a $6bn Hong Kong initial public
offering. For this it had enlisted a record-setting 29 banks, few of whom expected to make any money.
That implies the bankers either hoped for future profitable work or were scared of being left off the list.

In an ideal world, Asia's investment bankers would have a string of deal-hungry Wilmar-like clients, or at
least the time to use unprofitable IPO roles to win them. The differing strategies and talk of discipline are
an acknowledgment few have that luxury. But the WH Group experience shows there is still a big gap
between strategic rhetoric and front-line reality.

Jennifer Hughes is the Financial Times' Asia Financial Correspondent

CO
IN

RE

fdgl : Goodman Fielder Ltd | shlhot : Shangri-La Hotel | ubs : UBS AG
i81402 : Commercial Banking | i83101 : Investment Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking | i831
: Financial Investments | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities | i41 :
Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i66 : Hotels/Restaurants | i665 : Lodgings | i6651 : Hotels (except
Casino)/Motels | icnp : Consumer Goods | ilea : Leisure/Arts/Hospitality | itourm : Tourism
sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia | nswals : New South
Wales

PUB The Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)
AN

Document FTCOM00020140603ea63001b9

Page50of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.