Islamic fund pours investment into Queensland

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Islamic fund pours investment into Queensland

Shaun Drummond
594 words
17 February 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
21
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

The financier who devised Australia's first Islamic bond is funnelling $100 million from Malaysia,
Indonesia and the Middle East into infrastructure and property projects in Queensland and Indonesia
via a new Islamic fund.

Rusdyi Mitabu's Brisbane Islamic Investment Fund, launched on January 6, has commitments from
several private and sovereign Islamic funds in search of better yields.

Around $10 million has been earmarked for a galvanising plant in Toowoomba, and the fund is also
contributing $15 million to a new cattle feed lot and abattoir which will be built this year in West
Java, Indonesia. It will take calves from Australia and fatten them up for Asian and Middle Eastern
consumers.

BIIF is one of a number of financiers for the lot and is contributing via the Queensland Meat
Consortium.

The supply of investments that comply with Islamic law continues to fall short of demand from
investors, which are primarily Muslim countries in search of funding and rich Gulf oil states looking
for better yields.

"The Middle East is the number one fund, the second is the Malaysian sovereign funds," Mr Mitabu
said.
"But we have inquiries from China and Japan because it is another asset class and they would like
to diversify their investments."

Total funds under management in the top 10 Islamic fund countries for investment in
sharia-compliant assets was $US43.2 billion ($47.8 million) in 2013, according to
Thomson-Reuters. The vast majority of this is in Malaysia and Saudi Arabia.
Global lender demand for Islamic bonds is expected to rise to more than US$420 billion by 2016.

BIIF also plans to tip funds into developing luxury hotels and a marina at Medana Bay on Lombok,
an island adjacent to Bali, and is finalising property investments in Brisbane and on the Gold Coast,
including university student accommodation.
All of the $100 million in commitments secured so far should be allocated by the end of the year,
but Mr Mitabu said the projects would not receive funds until the assets are ready to provide a return
to investors.

"The money is already there on an on-call basis," he said. "The money will flow in once the
underlying assets are ready."

Page118of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.SGI-Mitabu issued the first Islamic bond, known as a sukuk, by an Australian company in late 2012.
It raised $100 million from Malaysian investors to build a 50-megawatt solar plant in East
Kalimantan on the island of Borneo, and plans to raise another $400 million to build four more
across Indonesia.

Sharia law prohibits interest, which means the investment structures of sukuk are often based on
lenders temporarily owning an asset and taking a cut of the money made with it. Investments in
gambling, alcohol, pork products and tobacco are also banned.
Each of the projects BIIF is investing in will be powered by solar panels supplied by SGI-Mitabu.

The Islamic finance structures used to fund them vary. For the Toowoomba galvanising factory, two
equity equivalents are being used.

The plant itself will be funded via a type of joint venture, or musharakah, between BIIF and the plant
operator. Musharakah requires each partner to agree on how much of the profits each will receive
beforehand.
A Murabaha structure will be used to finance the solar panels that will power it.

This involves the financier buying the asset on behalf of their client and then selling it to them with a
profit margin. The cost price and margin are revealed to the client.

RE

PUB
AN

austr : Australia | indon : Indonesia | malay : Malaysia | brisbn : Brisbane | queensl : Queensland |
apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries
| dvpcoz : Developing Economies | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140216ea2h0000s

Page119of340©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.