Padbury had not locked in Oakajee port and rail project funding, despite telling ASX it had

Padbury had not locked in Oakajee port and rail project funding, despite telling ASX it had

By resources reporter Sue Lannin

HD
BY
WC 1,037 words
PD
2 May 2014
SN
Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC) News
SC
ABCNEW
LA
English
CY
(c) 2014 Australian Broadcasting Corporation
LP

TD

Padbury has told the Australian Securities Exchange it had not locked in $6.5 billion in funding for
Oakajee despite telling the market it had.
The company told the ASX on April 11 it had "100 per cent equity funding secured" for the Oakajee port
and rail project.

Padbury resumed share trading today after being in a trading suspension for three weeks as the ASX
sought answers over questions about its construction plans.

The corporate regulator ASIC is also investigating Padbury's disclosure and share trading.
WA explorer Padbury Mining has revealed it had not locked in the finance when it told the market it had
secured $6.5 billion to build an iron ore export hub in the state's Mid West.
The company told the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX) on April 11 it had "100 per cent equity
funding secured" for the Oakajee port and rail project.

Padbury resumed share trading today after being in a trading suspension for three weeks as the ASX
sought answers over questions about its construction plans.

The corporate regulator ASIC is also investigating Padbury's disclosure and share trading.

Earlier this week, Padbury said it had abandoned the finance deal and that it had been terminated by
agreement with the financiers, Superkite and Alliance Super Holdings.

But today Padbury told the ASX the finance was not in place when it made the announcement last month.

It also said a shareholders agreement between it, Superkite and Alliance Super Holdings required it to pay
hundreds of millions of dollars in fees to obtain the money to build Oakajee.

The companies are controlled by Sydney entrepreneur, Roland Bleyer, who used to run the Bleyer Hair
Clinics in Australia.

Mr Bleyer told the ABC that the finance deal had been ended by "mutual agreement" and blamed the
media for the plan falling apart.
The company said it was required to give a demand guarantee issued by a bank for $94 million to the
financiers by early June as part of the conditions for securing the money.

Padbury was required to get the necessary approvals for building the project from the WA Government
and shareholders.
The $6.5 billion was to be paid to Mid West Infrastructure, the vehicle set up by Padbury to build the
project, in three tranches and Padbury was required to pay the financiers 20 per cent of each funding
tranche.

ASX questions level of disclosure

Page152of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The ASX has asked why Padbury did not disclose the conditions to the shareholder agreement in the April
11 market announcement, which said that $6.5 billion had been secured to build Oakajee port and rail.

Padbury said at the time it was confident it could satisfy the finance conditions but has admitted that initial
announcement was not reviewed by external lawyers.

It also said it was in confidential and incomplete talks with other parties to try and satisfy the requirement
for the first bank guarantee.
Padbury's latest quarterly accounts showed it had just $1.5 million cash-in-hand at the end of the March
quarter.
The company would have had to launch a capital raising to pay the fees or obtain the money via a loan or
by issuing corporate bonds.

Padbury said it had been negotiating with Superkite and Alliance Super Holdings for 18 months.

The ABC understands that Superkite and Alliance Super Holdings have approached other companies
offering to raise finance.

In March, the New South Wales Supreme Court ordered Superkite to return a fund raising fee to aged
care firm, Craigcare.
And a plan by Alliance Super Holdings to raise finance for WA iron ore explorer, FairStar Resources, to
develop its major iron ore project fell through after FairStar found a Chinese state-owned firm to invest.
Padbury Mining has also made concessions to the Australian Securities Exchange in relation to its
disclosure of market information practices.
The company says it will get an external law firm to review its corporate governance policies, ASX
disclosure and listing rule compliance processes, and put in place a training and assessment program for
Padbury's officers and staff.
Padbury Mining is run by former WA public servant, Gary Stokes who was fined $1,500 in 2012 for
leaking confidential information to former premier, Brian Burke.
Equity levels and negotiations scrutinised
The April 11 market announcement said the Oakajee project would have 100 per cent equity but it is rare
for a project to have that.
Gina Rinehart's Roy Hilliron ore project in the Pilbara had 30 per cent equity and $7 billion in funding
from a consortium of lenders.

It took Roy Hill more than two years to secure the funding from 19 commercial lenders and five export
credit agencies, and extensive due diligence was conducted.

The ASX has also asked questions about the nature of Padbury's negotiations with the WA Government.

In the April 11 market announcement, Padbury said negotiations were underway with the WA Government
to build the project.

However, the WA Government told the ABC last month that there had been no detailed negotiations with
any new proponent to build Oakajee.

Padbury has told the ASX that it has corresponded on numerous occasions with the WA Government and
had meetings with staff of the WA Premier.

WA Premier Colin Barnett said the Department of State Development met with Padbury but he did not.

He told 720 ABC Perth this week that the Padbury proposal was "opportunistic" and he had dismissed it
within "about 30 seconds".

"The ASX I think will look at it pretty carefully", he said.

Many a WA premier has sought to get a deepwater port and railway line built at Oakajee near Geraldton
to transport stranded iron ore deposits in the state's Mid West.
Last year Japan's Mitsubishi abandoned its plans to build Oakajee because it could not find an equity
partner.

Page153of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mr Barnett said Chinese state-backed CITIC Group has had talks with Mitsubishi about restarting
Oakajee and he believes that CITIC will lead the development.
Padbury Mining closed down 85 per cent today to half a cent.

CO rivgol : Padbury Mining Limited | ausste : ASX Ltd
IN

i5020017 : Harbor Construction | i502 : Heavy Construction | iconst : Construction | icre : Real
Estate/Construction | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2112 : Gold Ore/Silver Ore Mining | i831 : Financial
Investments | i83106 : Securities/Commodity Exchange Activities | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources |
ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities | imet : Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

NS
RE
IPD Padbury
PUB Australian Broadcasting Corporation
AN

Document ABCNEW0020140502ea52000e2

Page154of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.