Corporate Watch: News Digest

SE
HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
ED
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Corporate Watch: News Digest

821 words
24 September 2014
10:54
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
WSJ.com
English
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Joint Venture to Cut

700 Jobs in Australia

Several of Australia's largest coal companies are intensifying job cutbacks, despite signs of an upturn
for the commodity.
BHP Billiton and Mitsubishi Corp.'s Australian joint venture—the world's biggest exporter of coal to
make steel—said on Tuesday it would cut jobs, citing a sustained weakness in prices.
The companies said they would shed about 700 jobs from their Australian coal-mining operations in
central Queensland as they deepen a cost-cutting drive that has been going on for more than 18
months. The BHP-Mitsubishi alliance employs about 7,000 people in Queensland's Bowen Basin,
which includes two operations it operates with Mitsui & Co.
New Hope Corp., one of Australia's largest coal miners, also is shedding jobs. Chief Executive Shane
Stephan said on Tuesday that the company had cut 45 jobs in recent months.

Rhiannon Hoyle

Crest Whitestrips Maker Wins Infringement Suit

Procter & Gamble Co. won a victory in its fight to protect its Crest Whitestrips from generic competition,
potentially driving one of its few remaining rivals out of the market.

The consumer-products giant said Tuesday that a federal court in Ohio found the tooth whitening strips
produced by Clio USA, a small manufacturer that has supplied generic strips to stores including CVS
Health Corp. and Family Dollar Stores Inc., infringed on three of P&G's patents.

Tim Barrett, an analyst with Euromonitor International, said the court's decision will likely force Clio to
leave the market that Crest has vigorously defended.

A representative from Clio didn't respond to requests for comment.

Chelsey Dulaney
Regulators Approve Operations in China

NetJets Inc. said it has become the first Western private-jet operator to secure permission from
regulators in China to operate flights within that country, though airspace restrictions will limit the
services it can offer.

The Columbus, Ohio, unit of Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway Inc. said Tuesday that it initially will
offer charter flights in China with two planes. It hopes to win approval by early next year to also take on
the management of jets owned by companies and wealthy individuals in the country.

Page156of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Private-jet use in China is growing rapidly, with aircraft manufacturers and operators targeting the
region's emerging superrich and corporate elites.

However, NetJets Chief Executive Jordan Hansell said on a call with reporters that it can still take one
to two days to secure permission from regulators for flight plans and other clearances, even though
Chinese regulators have been opening more military airspace to commercial flying. The complications
reduce the flexibility and appeal of private jets.

Doug Cameron
Xbox One Release Pushed Back to Sept. 29 in China
The Xbox One has a China release date. Again.
Microsoft Corp. said that its new game console will go on sale in the world's No. 2 economy on Sept.
29. The disclosure comes after the Redmond, Wash., technology giant over the weekend pulled the
plug on its initial Sept. 23 launch date.

"After receiving government approval for the first wave of games, we will launch with the first 10 games
now and continue our work to bring more blockbuster games and a broad offering of entertainment and
app experiences to the platform in the weeks and months to come," said Enwei Xie, general manager
of Xbox China.

Asked why the console was delayed, a Microsoft spokeswoman said, "we wanted to launch with the
first approved game titles right away." She didn't immediately respond to questions about whether the
games were delayed.
The Xbox One would become the first game console to be legally sold in China in more than a
decade.

Pricing could be a challenge. Microsoft said it plans to sell the Xbox One with the Kinect motion
detection system for 4,299 yuan ($700), roughly 40% more than in the U.S.

Carlos Tejada

IPO Puts CEO Atop List
Alibaba's blockbuster $25 billion stock offering has made Jack Ma the wealthiest man in China,
according to a new survey, as investor enthusiasm for Chinese technology names enriches a new
generation of Internet moguls.
Mr. Ma, founder and executive chairman of Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., and his family have a net
worth of about $25 billion following last week's initial public offering, according to the Hurun Rich List,
an annual survey compiled by the Shanghai-based research group Hurun Report and released on
Tuesday. That puts him at the top of a list long dominated by property magnates. An Alibaba
spokeswoman declined to comment.

Half of this year's top 10 were technology executives, including the top executives at Internet
conglomerate Tencent Holdings Ltd., search engine provider Baidu Inc., e-commerce website JD.com
Inc. and smartphone maker Xiaomi Inc. Only two major property investors made the list amid a
swooning Chinese real-estate market.

Eva Dou

CO

IN

NS

mtsubc : Mitsubishi Corp | mtsui : Mitsui & Co Ltd | nope : New Hope Corporation Ltd | doltre : Dollar
Tree Inc. Holding Co. | prgml : The Procter & Gamble Company | fdost : Family Dollar Stores Inc |
mville : CVS Health Corp | alibab : Alibaba Group Holding Ltd
i1 : Energy | i111 : Coal Mining | i258 : Cosmetics/Toiletries | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i643 :
Pharmacies/Drug Stores | i654 : Specialty Stores | i656 : Mixed Retailing | i8396 : Diversified Holding
Companies | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | icnp :
Consumer Goods | idollar : Discount/Dollar Stores | iebus : B2B e-commerce | iecom : E-commerce |
iint : Internet/Online | imet : Mining/Quarrying | ipcare : Personal Care Products/Appliances | iretail :
Retail | itech : Technology
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncdig : Corporate Digests | c184 : Joint Ventures | c18 : Ownership
Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E
Industry News Filter

Page157of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

IPD
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Business
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document WSJO000020140924ea9n000dx

Page158of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.