Qantas looks to terminal sell-off and frequent-flyer float as Joyce sharpens knife

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Finance
Qantas looks to terminal sell-off and frequent-flyer float as Joyce sharpens knife

JOHN DURIE
1,329 words
30 January 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
1 - All-round Country
17
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

QANTAS is said to be close to selling its Brisbane airport terminal to raise about $150 million as part
of its cost-cutting program aimed at restoring the airline to profitability.

Talks to complete the sale and lease back of its Melbourne terminal, which would raise about $250m,
are also well advanced, but little progress is being made in Sydney. Airline chief executive Alan Joyce
will detail just how he is going to save $2 billion when he unveils on February 27 a forecast loss of up
to $300m for the last half year.

Final decisions are still to be made on any asset sales. Indeed, next month's release is more of an
update rather than a definitive statement on exactly what will happen to the frequent-flyer division and
other assets.

The moves come in a domestic market that is still flat.

A lower Australian dollar helps Qantas, but a lower fuel price would help even more when you consider
the airline spends $4.5bn on fuel a year; and a 10 per cent cut would save $450m.

Rival Virgin Australia is expected to slow capacity growth to about 1 per cent this half, which will help
Qantas, but the local market still has excess capacity and zero growth prospects.

Qantas has appointed bankers to assess a float of 30-40 per cent of the frequent-flyer division. Such a
move would serve to raise cash to help pay for accelerated redundancies and other parts of the
business-transformation process.

Citibank and Macquarie have the job of assessing the float option.

Next month's update comes against a background in which Joyce has banged the drum around
Canberra detailing the airline's plight and bemoaning the clear benefits afforded to Virgin thanks to its
ownership structure.

Running Qantas is a juggling act. The chief executive must serve many masters, and while it is OK to
cry poor to Canberra and the unions, at the same time staff morale, brand value and the company's
investors must be satisfied.

That is what Joyce will be trying to manage next month when, for the first time, he details the $2bn in
costs to be cut over the next three years. This is the equivalent of the costs taken out by American
Airlines when it filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in 2011.

That airline joined with US Airways and has just reported a combined $US1.9bn ($2.16bn) in profit for
last year, excluding $US2.5bn in bankruptcy charges.

Over the past four years, Joyce

Continued on Page 24

Page58of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Continued from Page 17

has taken out 19 per cent of costs, or about $2bn.

The relatively muted response to decisions such as the transfer of 747 maintenance offshore
highlights the advantages of transparency and telling the market just how bad things are. The flip side
is the impact this is having on the brand, staff and sales.

A partial sale of the highly profitable frequent-flyer division, by either a float or trade sale, will have to
be considered in the context of some analysts valuing the division as high as $3bn, against a market
value for Qantas now of more than $2.6bn.

Providing the airline can maintain control of a majority of the division, it will also be able to keep its
cashflow and other benefits.

Its partner sponsors would have to be comfortable with the move, but in theory, if the division was to
be valued by the market at $3bn, then the see-through value of Qantas should increase.

A sale of the freight operation, as speculated elsewhere, won't happen for the simple reason that the
company has already sold its major freight business, Star Track, to joint-venture partner Australia
Post, and all that is left essentially is the underbelly of the aircraft.

While talks with Brisbane and Melbourne airports are well advanced, the deal on the table at Sydney is
not attracting much interest.

The cost-cutting program has been widespread, including items such as its Mascot campus, which has
been whittled down from nine buildings to five in a renovation saving about $9m.

The Jetstar operations are also under review, but to put the international division into context, the total
investment is roughly the cost of one A380, or about $300m.

Qantas mainline owns 12 A380s.
The company is looking at Jetstar International, but would be reluctant to pull the pin given the
Singapore arm is holding its own, the Hong Kong arm is being backed by China Eastern and the
minority-owned Japanese operation is being backed by JAL and is widely lauded for its growth
opportunities. Breaking even is one thing, earning a decent return is another, and the question for
Joyce is whether Qantas can afford to maintain its expansion plans in the middle of its present crisis.

Canberra is mulling a range of alternatives, including a potential standby credit facility along the lines
of that enjoyed by the big banks after the global financial crisis, which Qantas would need to pay for
and would hopefully not be used, but would help with the rating agencies.

The repeal of the Qantas sale act will not help the airline tomorrow, but will give it more flexibility when
you consider conditions such as having to maintain a ``majority of operations'' in Australia.
The company also has some room to move when you consider that it owns 50 aircraft with no debt,
which could be refinanced in a sale and lease-back type arrangement.

Talk but no action

ANZ Australia boss Phil Chronican is well into a review of all his products in the wake of the
remediation efforts reported here last week.

So far the comprehensive review is yet to uncover similar problems.
Joe Hockey broke bread with the senior Westpac brass, including chief Gail Kelly, at a lunch
yesterday to learn their view on the economy, the financial services inquiry and the likely progress of
the Sydney Swans Australian rules football team this year.

From the big end of town, the word was that boardrooms are starting to talk deals and spending, but
have not actually put words into action as yet.

Given that is how everyone is looking at the world, the upside is that at least deals are being talked
about, but the downside is people are still sitting on their hands.

Fahour's mailstrom

Page59of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AUSTRALIA Post's Ahmed Fahour is working on the hope that if the Australian Competition &
Consumer Commission approves the 10c increase in stamp prices, his losses will be cut by about
$100m on the 3.3 billion letters posted every year. Trouble is, that number is falling each year so the
price increase, if approved, will probably just mean he matches last year's $212m loss from his
so-called reserved-post business.

The price increase comes on the back of a 100 per cent hike in cash costs, which is crippling parts of
its retail network. Fahour has smartly opted to freeze prices for pensioners, who also happen to be the
best supporters of mail.
The rapid decline in the letter business is well documented and each reduction means economies of
scale disappear.
That explains why Fahour has pushed hard on his parcel business where Australia Post has the
market leadership.

Five years ago, on average, every mailbox got two letters. Today that has fallen to just 1.5 letters,
while over the past decade posties have gone from putting a letter in every home on their round to just
66 per cent of homes nowadays.

Fahour has just returned from his annual trip to the US to take part in the Australian-American
leadership dialogue at Stanford University in California's Silicon Valley.

This year's trip included site visits to LinkedIn and Google to see just how the digital world is moving.

vrbair : Virgin Australia Holdings Ltd | qntas : Qantas Airways Ltd
i764 : Airports | iairtr : Air Transport | itsp : Transportation/Shipping | i75 : Airlines | i7501 : Scheduled
Passenger Airlines | ilowair : Low Cost Airlines
reqrai : Suggested Reading Airlines | c152 : Earnings Projections | c182 : Asset Transactions | c151 :
Earnings | c15 : Performance | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News
Filter | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | queensl : Queensland | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South Wales
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140129ea1u0001u

CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page60of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.