AURIZON SPEEDING IN RIGHT DIRECTION

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
AURIZON SPEEDING IN RIGHT DIRECTION

LOUISE BRANNELLY, RHIAN DEUTROM
496 words
14 July 2014
The Courier-Mail
COUMAI
CourierMail
24
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

AURIZON shares have more than doubled since listing four years ago and analysts say the stock still
has momentum.

RBC Capital Markets recently upgraded its ranking on Aurizon to “outperform”, from “perform” and
pushed its 12-month price target out to $5.50, from $5.25.

“(Aurizon) is undergoing a major transformation that should offer investors substantial earnings growth,
improving returns ... and dividend upside,’’ RBC analysts Paul Johnston and Paul Mason said.

JP Morgan is similarly bullish, lifting its price target for Aurizon to $5.20 a share, from $5.16.

Investors who took a punt with Aurizon (previously QR National) when it floated in November, 2010,
have been richly rewarded. The stock, issued to Queensland retail investors at $2.45, climbed as high
as $5.26 in April this year.
The stock closed on Friday at $5.03, just days after Aurizon and joint venture partner, Chinese
steelmaker Baosteel, announced they had accumulated a more than a 90 per cent stake in takeover
target Aquila Resources.
Aquila’s major assets are the West Pilbara Iron Ore Project in Western Australia and Eagle Downs
Hard Coking Coal Project in Queensland.

Not all investors are enamoured by the Aquila deal. Superannuation fund Unisuper has ceased to be a
substantial shareholder in Aurizon after offloading a 66.5 million shares last month.
RBC analysts also have some reservations regarding the Aquila acquisition. “(But) we are of the view
the market will ‘move on’ from this deal and focus again will return to the transformation,” they said.
As part of its transition from a government-owned corporation to an ASX listed company, Aurizon has
undergone a massive restructure.

It has slashed 2000 jobs or more than 20 per cent of its workforce since its float.

It has also increased its cost control, as measured by its Operating Ratio. When it floated, Aurizon was
spending 91¢ for every $1 of revenue. By December last year it had cut that figure to 78.4¢ of spending
for every $1 of revenue. The goal is an OR of 75 per cent or 75¢ of spending for every $1 of revenue by
next financial year.
Aurizon CEO Lance Hockridge said the company’s transformation “is a work in progress”.

It is all about cutting costs, lifting productivity and creating new growth opportunities.

Page123of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“Four years back, who would have thought for instance that we would be contemplating a $ 5 billion
greenfield rail and port development for iron ore in the Pilbara, where we’ve joint ventured with one of
the globe’s largest iron and steel companies, Baosteel,’’ he said.“We understand and value the pivotal
role we hold in export supply chains and, by extension, the global competitiveness of Australian
resource exports. By driving our company towards world-class performance – pushing down our cost
base, lifting productivity and nurturing innovation we know the benefit will be delivered to customers
and the broader economy.”

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

qrntnl : Aurizon Holdings Limited
i71 : Railroads | icargo : Freight/Cargo Transport | irailtr : Road/Rail Transport | irfrght : Railroad Freight
| itsp : Transportation/Shipping
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document COUMAI0020140713ea7e000ba

Page124of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.