Norton takeover hits Bullabulling roadblock

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Norton takeover hits Bullabulling roadblock

BARRY FITZGERALD
310 words
1 May 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
24
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Mining: Norton Gold Fields’ $24 million takeover bid for Bullabulling Gold remains under pressure
after the target company revealed shareholders with 41.8 per cent of its shares had indicated they
would not accept the 7c-a-share offer.

The cash offer also remains overbid on the market, with Bullabulling closing yesterday at 7.5c.

But Bullabulling has nevertheless felt the need to warn shareholders that the 7c bid could be just the
first step in a potential two-step play by Norton — majority owned by China’s biggest gold producer
Zijin — to secure control of the company and its 3.75 million ounce gold resource, 60km from
Kalgoorlie.

Because the Norton offer is not subject to a minimum acceptance condition, and because of the
shareholders who have indicated that they would not accept for their collective 41.8 per cent stake,
Bullabulling believes it is possible Norton could return in the future with a separate, follow-on offer in
order to acquire 100 per cent control.

Bullabulling said it could well be that any such offer would be at a higher price than the 7c bid.
The company repeated previous advice that the current offer does not fairly reflect the value of the
Bullabulling gold project, and is opportunistic as it comes before the release of a definitive feasibility
study, due in the first quarter of next year.
It said the study was expected to “reveal further improvement in the Bullabulling gold project’s
development plan and economics.’’The Norton bid was at a 30 per cent premium to Bullabulling’s
share price before the offer was announced. Norton has argued the offer gives certainty in that
Bullabulling will have to jump a capital hurdle to get its project in to production, Norton put the capital
needs at more than $300m.

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

cnchgd : Bullabulling Gold Limited | nogofe : Norton Gold Fields Ltd
i2112 : Gold Ore/Silver Ore Mining | i22472 : Precious Metals | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary
Metals | i224 : Non-ferrous Metals | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cacqu : Acquisitions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140430ea51000ea

Page282of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.