Media Release: PepsiCo

HD Media Release: PepsiCo
WC 1,503 words
PD
12 May 2014
SN
AAP MediaNet Press Releases
SC
AAPMPR
LA
English
CY
© 2014 Australian Associated Press Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved
LP

AAPMEDIA RELEASE PR56716 Presenting Pepsi(R) Beats of the Beautiful Game
PURCHASE, N.Y., May 12, 2014 /PRNewswire-AsiaNet/ --

TD

-- New Visual Album C elebrates the International Sights and Sounds of Football

-- Features the world's hottest musical artists and directors including, Kelly Rowland, Janelle Mona e, Rita
Ora, Don Omar, R3hab, Spike Lee, Idris Elba, Jessy Terrero, Diego Luna and more

#FUTBOLNOW Pepsi(R) today announced the Pepsi Beats of the Beautiful Game
(http://www.pepsi.com/thegame ) album, an exclusive collection of 11 anthemic songs and companion
short films, or 'filmtracks,' that capture the indelible international spirit, sights and sounds of the world's
most popular game football. The visual album will unite chart-topping musicians with award-winning
directors to showcase the inextricably interwoven power of music, film and sport.

Photo - http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20140509/86238

Pepsi Beats of the Beautiful Game showcases an eclectic mix of rising and celebrated musical artists from
around the world including Kelly Rowland, Janelle Monae, Rita Ora, Don Omar, Santigold, Timbaland,
R3hab and Jetta alongside regional favorites Pearls Negras (Brazil), Jolin Tsai Yl-ling (China) and
Hassan El Shafei (Egypt).

These artists' songs will serve as inspirations for 11 short films by dynamic directors, including Spike Lee,
Idris Elba, Jessy Terrero, Diego Luna, Andy Morahan and The Kolton Brothers among others, whose
accompanying filmtracks tell a story inspired by each song.

Each week, Pepsi will premiere songs off the album as singles on the iTunes store, with accompanying
filmtracks free to view the same day on www.pepsi.com/thegame, as well as artists' YouTube or Vevo
channels.

The first in the album release: Young Astronauts-directed filmtrack for "Heroes," Janelle Monae's fresh
take on the iconic David Bowie classic released a few weeks ago, makes its debut today.

"This visual album is a celebration of different artistic talents and intertwines two art forms that up until
now existed mostly in service of one another. With Pepsi Beats of the Beautiful Game, we are finally
elevating these artforms to an equal plane and showcasing them on a global level. The 'beats' are both
musical and visual snapshots that speak to the spirit of football culture, where songs serve as inspiration
for the films and the films allow for greater interpretation of the songs," said Frank Cooper III, Chief
Marketing Officer, Global Consumer Engagement, PepsiCo Global Beverages Group.

Pepsi Beats of the Beautiful Game also seeks to empower and create momentum for those often
excluded from the center stage of football. Pepsi has partnered with Cine Favela, a cultural non-profit
organization providing film education and tools to aspiring new young directors throughout Brazil. Cine
Favela alumni will bring to life Pearls Negras' rhythmical track "Guerreira," showcasing the hidden talent
and overwhelming passion and spirit that flows from the favelas of Brazil.

As the largest music, film and football collaboration in the brand's history, Pepsi Beats of the Beautiful
Game audibly and visually captures the vibrant sights, sounds and stories that unite fans with the game of

Page92of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.football. Track to track, the excitement, passion and intensity flows like a footballer performing on the
pitch.

The complete 11-track Pepsi Beats of the Beautiful Game album (distributed by Caroline) drops June 9th
internationally and June 10th in the U.S. Beginning today, the album is available for pre-sale on iTunes
(http://smarturl.it/PepsiBOTBG ).

"I was immediately attracted to 'The Game' because I can identify with its theme of overcoming challenges
and finding your voice. It's a very important message and I'm honored to partner with Pepsi on a project
that brings the worlds of music, sports and film together," says Kelly Rowland. "As an artist and a huge
film and sports fan it's been an incredible experience."

The full track list includes:

Janelle Monae, "Heroes," with filmtrack by The Young Astronauts

Don Omar, "Pura Vida," with filmtrack by Jessy Terrero

Rita Ora, "I Will Never Let You Down (Switch Remix)," with filmtrack by Diego Luna

R3hab feat. Eva Simons, "Unstoppable," with filmtrack by Idris Elba Jetta, "Crescendo"

Kelly Rowland, "The Game," with filmtrack by Spike Lee

Santigold, "Kicking Down Doors," with filmtrack by Andy Morahan

Timbaland staring Rachel Assil, "Whoever We Are," with filmtrack by The Kolton Brothers

Pearls Negras, "Guerreira," with filmtrack by Cine Favela

Jolin Tsai Yl-ling, "Now is the Time," with filmtrack by Cai Yiqi

Hassan el Shafei, "Ahlam Men Gedial"

Dominic Pandiscia, President of Caroline stated, "Caroline and Pepsi share a vision of enabling talented
artists the platform to accelerate music on a global scale. Pepsi Beats of the Beautiful Game captures the
spirit of football, and we couldn't be more excited to support the diverse roster of international talent."

Pepsi Beats of the Beautiful Game is part of the integrated 2014 Pepsi football campaign. The album
follows the announcement of the brand's "Now Is What You Make It"
(http://www.pepsi.com/en-us/d/content/2559/Pepsi-celebrates-music-and-football-p
roving-that-NOW-IS-WHAT-YOU-MAKE-IT ) global commercial and interactive film, as well as a creative
art collection, "The Art of Football."
(http://www.pepsi.com/en-us/d/content/1735/From-Pitch-to-Canvas:-#FUTBOLNOW ) The campaign will
continue to deliver more experiences to fans throughout the year bringing them closer to the game they
love.

For more information on Pepsi and "Live For Now" visit www.pepsi.com and follow the conversation online
with #FutbolNow.

NOTE TO EDITORS:

About PepsiCo
PepsiCo is a global food and beverage leader with net revenues of more than $65 billion and a product
portfolio that includes 22 brands that generate more than $1 billion each in annual retail sales. Our main
businesses Quaker, Tropicana, Gatorade, Frito-Lay and Pepsi-Cola make hundreds of enjoyable foods
and beverages that are loved throughout the world. PepsiCo's people are united by our unique
commitment to sustainable growth by investing in a healthier future for people and our planet, which we
believe also means a more successful future for PepsiCo. We call this commitment Performance with
Purpose: PepsiCo's promise to provide a wide range of foods and beverages from treats to healthy eats;
to find innovative ways to minimize our impact on the environment by conserving energy and water and
reducing packaging volume; to provide a great workplace for our associates; and to respect, support and
invest in the local communities where we operate. For more information, please visit www.pepsico.com.

About Caroline
Caroline, re-launched in 2013, is the premiere service company to the independent artist and label
community. Born of the DNA of the successful EMI Label Services division and building on the 30 year

Page93of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.tradition of the historic Caroline Distribution (one of the U.S's largest independent distribution companies),
Caroline has been defined as the definitive service company for a wide range of artists and labels
including ATO Records, Hopeless Records, Welk Music Group, Votive, Dine Alone, Prospect Park, Alter
Bridge, Slash, Tyrese, Raekwon, Candlelight and more. Caroline's services range from commercial
marketing, through radio promotion, on-line marketing, product management and tour coordination, as
well as branding and sync. Caroline offers its services on a global scale supporting the independent artist
and label with a system that can touch every market around the world.

Helmed by President, Dominic Pandiscia, Caroline defines the essence of the independent culture and
spirit while bringing all of the leverage of a major to the marketplace. Driven by commitment, passion and
hustle, Caroline delivers a transparent, flexible and tailor-maid vehicle to super-serve, support and nurture
the independent community, artist and label.

Just as Caroline Distribution was the launching pad for the careers of artists such as Smashing Pumpkins,
Hole, White Zombie, Ben Folds and The Chemical Brothers, Caroline continues to dedicate its efforts to
the development of independent artists and labels to help ensure they achieve their maximized potential.
About Cine Favela In 2003, a group of residents of the Heliopolis favela community got together to
promote cultural inclusion through theater and film to underserved youths from the Sao Paulo outskirts. In
2004, the group founded the ACAHS (Associacao Cultural Artistica de Heliopolis e Sacoma), now known
as the ASSOCIACAO CULTURAL ARTISTICA CINE FAVELA (Cine Favela Cultural Artistic Association).
So being, CINE FAVELA, the first movie theater founded in a favela community in the world was born,
lending it name to the sociocultural project. Since its founding, CINE FAVELA has fostered the FESTIVAL
CINE FAVELA DE CINEMA, which in 2014, reached its 9th consecutive edition. The event has gathered
more than 20,000 people from all over Brazil, directly benefiting more than 350 youths with workshop
activities and showing more than 450 Brazilian and international films produced by cultural associations,
NGOs, artist collectives, social projects and independent producers making it the BIGGEST
'PERIPHERAL' FILM FESTIVAL IN THE WORLD.

SOURCE: PepsiCo

CONTACT: FOR FURTHER INFORMATION: PepsiCo: Nicole Tronolone /
Nicole.Tronolone@pepsico.com

NS

i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i428 : Soft Drinks | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods |
inonal : Non-alcoholic Beverages/Drinks
gmusic : Music | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | npress : Press Releases | gcat : Political/General News
| gent : Arts/Entertainment | ncat : Content Types
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

CO pepsco : PepsiCo Inc
IN

RE
PUB Australian Associated Press Pty Ltd
AN

Document AAPMPR0020140512ea5c000m9

Page94of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.