RBA warns on commercial real estate

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
RBA warns on commercial real estate

Matthew Cranston
457 words
19 September 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
33
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

The Reserve Bank of Australia has warned the valuations of commercial real estate could become
more "sensitive" due to foreign ownership.

"The greater foreign presence potentially adds to the sensitivity of capital values," its economic
analysis department said in a paper on foreign investment in commercial property.

It said the additional sensitivity to values from foreign ownership depended on variations in
conditions in the economies of those foreign buyers.

"For example, an adverse shock overseas could cause foreigners to try to divest Australian assets to
cover liabilities offshore," the bank said.
The RBA's analysis comes as foreign ownership across both commercial and residential real
estate comes under greater scrutiny.
Coalition MP Kelly O'Dwyer said evidence at a residential real estate inquiry suggests foreign
buyer restrictions were not adequately enforced by the Foreign Investment Review Board.
Investors from the world's second-largest economy, China, have rapidly lifted their residential and
commercial real estate investment in Australia.
Chinese investors have been on a buying spree, purchasing everything from existing office towers
for passive investments to residential redevelopment plays.
Several high-profile real estate industry figures have questioned the prices being paid, including
ANZ's head of commercial property, Eddie Law, who said banks must carefully monitor the "logic"
of new Chinese-backed site purchases and developments.
"Chinese equity competes in its own framework against local equity. It has a propensity to pay a
higher price, particularly for development sites, and the jury is out as to the logic attached to that at
the moment," Mr Law said this week.
However, the RBA hedged its bets on the effect of foreign capital on our real estate values by noting
that a large amount of investment had come from patient capital.

"The effect of deteriorating international conditions could also be lessened to the extent that pension
funds and sovereign wealth funds continue to account for a greater share of foreign purchase, since
these institutions are less likely to be influenced by temporary changes in their own country's
economic conditions."
The bank said that more foreign ownership of commercial buildings may also reduce the volatility of
Australian property values to the extent that domestic business cycles are not perfectly correlated
with those in other economies.

Page7of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Foreign investment in commercial property has increased in recent years, with foreigners having
accounted for about one-quarter of the value of commercial property purchases in Australia since
2008.
Nearly 90 per cent of all major hotel sales in Australia were by foreign investors in 2013.
The RBA also said the amount of foreign purchases had also enabled domestic firms to diversify
their portfolios by purchasing or developing buildings in other regions or sectors.

CO
IN
RE
PUB
AN

rbkaus : Reserve Bank of Australia
ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140918ea9j0000z

Page8of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.