Supply chain investment to secure wine future

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Supply chain investment to secure wine future

632 words
5 August 2014
Mondaq Business Briefing
BBPUB
English
(c) 2014 Mondaq Ltd

National law firm, Hunt & Hunt Lawyers, recently advised 1847 Winery on the purchase of Yaldara
Winery and brands from Australian Vintage, signalling confidence in global export opportunities for
Australian wineries.
Marc Davies, the Hunt &Hunt Partner leading the transaction said, "Australian wine producers typically
find distribution the most difficult aspect of their business, with the Australian dollar above historical
levels and an oversupply of wine.

"1847 Winery was different in that it already had a unique distribution model into foreign markets via
over 30 company branded retail cellar door stores, but unlike many wine producers it lacked security in
its supply chain."

John Curnow, CEO of 1847 Winerysaid, "The winery acquisition provides 1847 with the certainty that
ownership of our own winemaking and storage facility brings.

"Our wines, whilst known and renowned in export markets, are relatively unknown in Australia. The
Yaldara addition, with its prestigious cellar door facility, now provides an opportunity for greater
Australian awareness."

Other recent deals evidence smart buyers are securing their supply chains to support their distribution
methods into International markets.

But even the best intentions don't necessarily result in securing a winery, explains Davies."Many
negotiations never reach the deal stage."

"Acquisitions have the potential to stall if the negotiations are allowed to become drawn out or
protracted, especially in the wine industry. To their credit, both parties took a commercial approach and
we were able to finalise the Yaldaradeal in just over two months."

Building the reputation of Australian wine domestically and internationally has been a strong focus for
the Agribusiness industry. Hunt & Hunt Lawyers work together with grape growers and wine makers to
provide strategic, commercial advice.

Davies added, "Australia's wine and food sectoris extraordinarily well positioned to market in Asia and
has seen major growth in demand. Our clients are adapting through strategies and activities to broaden
market circles and increase trade."

About Hunt & hunt
Established in 1929, Hunt & Hunt is a vibrant national law firm that delivers tailored legal advice to
clients throughout Australia. Our broad client base includes not-for-profit organisations, large and small
businesses, government (Federal, State and local), major insurance firms and private clients.

With eight offices across Australia, an office in Shanghai, we employ approximately 60 partners and 400
professionals. Confident in our technical abilities, we build relationships founded on a genuine interest in
our clients, characterised by understanding and trust. We have the requisite experience, resources and
reputation to support a range of complex legal matters.

Page350of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Hunt & Hunt is currently embarking on a partnership with the Export Council of Australia (ECA) to
determine Agribusiness needs and drivers in South Australia.

Wine industry experience

Acted for 1847 Winery on its acquisition of Yaldara Winery from Australian Vintage Limited

Advised on the establishment of two managed viticultural funds for Australia's then largest independent
grape grower.

Acting for buyers and sellers of vineyards and wineries in the Barossa Valley, McLaren valeand
Langhorne Creek regions.
Advising established wineries on maximising their intellectual property, including advising on copyright
and trademark issues.
Acted for a Chinese food company in its $120 reverse listing on the ASX.

Advising the Barossa Grape and Wines Association Inc. (BGWA) in relation to the preparation and
negotiation of an agreement and other legal issues concerning the setting up of the Barossa wine school
in Beijing.

Advising BGWA in relation to the setting up of the Barossa Trust Mark Inc. whose members are the
BGWA, Food Barossa and Tourism Barossa.

Hunt & Hunt

Gateway

1 Macquarie Place

Sydney

NSW

2000

AUSTRALIA

Tel: 293913000

Fax: 293913099

E-mail: Cscahill@hunthunt.com.au

URL: www.hunthunt.com.au

(c) Mondaq Ltd, 2014 - Tel. +44 (0)20 8544 8300 - http://www.mondaq.com

IN

i426 : Wine | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | ialco : Alcoholic Beverages/Drinks | ibevrge :
Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

NS
RE
PUB Mondaq Limited
AN

Document BBPUB00020140805ea850005l

Page351of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.