IronClad could start Wilcherry Hill by November

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
VOL
LA
CY
LP

TD

News Stories; Other News
IronClad could start Wilcherry Hill by November

Marnie Hobson
358 words
18 September 2014
Platts SBB Steel Markets Daily
STEELDLY
ISSN: 1935-7354, Volume 8, Issue 184
English
© 2014 McGraw-Hill, Inc.

Australian developer IronClad Mining could begin mining at its Wilcherry Hill project in South Australia
by November if a deal is agreed with Arrium to sell the project's direct shipping ore at the mine gate, the
company said Thursday.
"A potential 'mine gate' sale to Arrium provides IronClad with a low capital start up option. Arrium have
been receptive to the concept and discussions are ongoing," IronClad said in a statement.

IronClad had been in discussions with several banks, trading houses and end users in China, Japan,
Korea and India about securing financing for the project. However, most third parties have placed
discussions on hold given the rapid decline in iron ore prices, the company said.

IronClad began discussions with Arrium in August about mine-gate sales, which would see it truck
around 400,000-500,000 mt/year to Arrium's Iron Knob mine 140 km away, from where it would be
transported to Whyalla port.
If mining at the trial pit commences in November, IronClad expects exports would then begin in the
January-March quarter 2015.

The Wilcherry Hill project is an 80:20 joint venture between IronClad and Trafford Resources. It has the
potential to produce 1 million mt/year of iron ore in its first stage before increasing to 2 million-4
million mt/year in the second stage. Wilcherry Hill also has a large manganese resource, which the
company was planning to have in production by 2015, but a company spokesman said Thursday these
plans have now been pushed back due to the lower iron ore price environment.

"The manganese still requires a lot of exploration dollars and in this market it's high risk, so this won't
come on until phase 2 in around five or six years time," he said. "Our priority is to get a high quality iron
ore to market as there's serious discounting from sub 62% Fe iron ore in the current market," he
added.
Wilcherry Hill has the potential to produce up to 1 million mt/year of manganese.

Marnie Hobson

CO
IN

RE
IPD
PUB
AN

inclad : IronClad Mining Limited | onestl : Arrium Limited | trfaus : Trafford Resources Ltd
i22 : Primary Metals | i222 : Steel Products | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Production
The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Document STEELDLY20141002ea9i00016

Page20of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.