Ooyala buy a risk worth taking

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Ooyala buy a risk worth taking

Comment David Ramli
548 words
13 August 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
20
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Telstra's acquisition of US internet video provider Ooyala for an extra $US270 million ($291
million) represents its newest push into Silicon Valley and is part of efforts to keep the company
relevant in the new digital age.

Ooyala may have a name you can barely pronounce but it's a product most Australian‎s have used
when visiting popular sites, including those of Fairfax Media, publisher of The Australian Financial
Review. Its software allows video to be streamed on websites and smartphones.

But should Telstra shareholders be worried the company is spending hundreds of millions on US
tech firms far off its traditional telecommunication's business? Not necessarily.
Telstra previously paid $US61 million to buy 23 per cent of Ooyala. The latest deal will see it spend
an extra $US270 million to raise its stake to 98 per cent.

Telcos around the world are desperate not to become dumb pipe providers – that earn little revenue
from their phone and internet users – as technology companies like Google and Facebook-owned
WhatsApp eat their lunches.Telstra's diversification

The answer for large players like Telstra has been to gamble its cash pile and diversify the business
into areas that can help or be helped by the company's existing strengths.
Telstra has billions of dollars thanks to the 70 per cent sale of its Sensis directories business for
$454 million in January as well as its 76.4 per cent stake in Hong Kong mobile service business
CSL for around $2 billion.
As a result Telstra now plays in start-ups, healthcare services, Chinese car sale websites and even
file-sharing tech companies like Box.
There's a high possibility that many of these will fail to launch and wind up costing Telstra hundreds
of millions of dollars. The write-off of its $302 million investment in two Chinese mobile companies
is one such example.

But it only takes one of its tech firms reaching the types of valuations of firms such as Facebook and
Google to make the whole effort worthwhile. The risky investment in Chinese car website
Autohome is valued at over $US4 billion – not bad for an initial investment of $US76 million.
According to leading analyst firm Gartner, the key to these bets winning big is staying out of their
way. Telstra is a veritable oil tanker that moves slowly compared to the nimble start-ups of Silicon
Valley.Lesson learned

Telstra global enterprise and services group executive Brendon Riley said the move was an attempt
to capitalise on what a video platform market worth between $10 billion and $20 billion by 2020.

Page72of239©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.But Telstra is still not revealing enough information about Ooyala to let investors see if the valuation
is fair. It has paid $US331 million to buy 98 per cent of the company and yet its profits and
earnings are all a mystery.
It is expected to generate revenue of $US65 million in 2014 but expenses are not disclosed.Ooyala
has 330 employees and is about to move into a brand new 65,000 square foot building in the heart
of Silicon Valley.

These are details shareholders will need to be given before they can pass fair judgment on Telstra's
strategy.

NS

RE
PUB
AN

c22 : New Products/Services | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact :
Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140812ea8d0002s

Page73of239©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.