Fund raising, M&a and innovation the Buzzwords For Global Malls

HD
BY
CR
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Fund raising, M&a and innovation the Buzzwords For Global Malls

PRIYANKA DASGUPTA
Distributed by Contify.com
1,366 words
28 October 2014
Shopping Center News (India)
ATSHOC
English
Copyright © 2014. Images Multimedia

Shopping centres around the world seem to be engaged in a bevy of M&A; activities to jump into the next
level of growth. While global private equity giant Carlyle Group is all set to buy stakes in nine shopping
malls, which belong to China VankeGroup, Singapore's sovereign wealth fund GIC has acquired 50 per
cent controlling stake in Roma Est Shopping Centre from a fund managed by CBRE Global Investors.
Post this purchase, GIC has become the sole owner of one of Italy's largest malls since it already has a
50 per cent controlling stake of Roma Est.

Leading Australian shopping centre company Westfield saw a 5.3 per cent growth in operating income
and now plans to progress with an US$ 11.6 billion investment in global projects. The Group has already
announced the launch of a project called Bespoke, which is 35,000 sq.ft. of co-working, demonstration
and event space to be built within Westfield San Francisco Centre, in a setting of 200 traditional retailers
and restaurants. This is the first project of its kind from Westfield, which has gained an international
reputation for investing in technology. After two years of planning with partner Forest City, the project
claims to be a heady experiment in the hotbed of retail-tech fervor.

FUND RAISING & M&A; ACTIVITIES DOMINATE MALLS ACROSS THE GLOBE

Emaar Properties will launch an initial public offering for its retail business in Dubai in October. The
Dubaibased developer said in a statement that it expects to sell at least 15 per cent of the company,
known as Emaar Malls Group, in the offering. Like Emaar Properties, the new company will trade on the
Dubai Financial Market. Emaar's retail business includes the vast Dubai Mall, which happens to be Middle
East's biggest shopping centre. Emaar plans to make 30 per cent of the offering available to individual
investors and the rest to institutional investors. The company's retail and malls arm recorded US$ 340
million in revenue in the first six months of 2014. The Dubai government owns around a third of Emaar
Properties, which has total assets of nearly US$ 19 billion.
On the other hand, global private equity giant Carlyle Group is in advanced talks with China Vanke Co.
Ltd., the country's largest developer, to buy stakes in nine of its shopping malls, according to latest media
reports. The deal would give Carlyle access to China's commercial real estate market and enable Vanke
to generate fast cash returns from commercial properties in a slumping residential market.

Also, GIC, Singapore's sovereign wealth fund, has acquired a 50 per cent stake in Roma Est Shopping
Centre from a fund managed by CBRE Global Investors. With the purchase, GIC, which already owns 50
per cent of Roma Est through an affiliate, will become the sole owner of one of Italy's largest malls. GIC
said in a press release that the acquisition demonstrates its confidence in the long-term prospects for Italy
and in the future demand for prime regional centres. In addition to Roma Est's stable cash flows, GIC
sees opportunities to add value to the centre through active asset management including leasing and
refurbishment strategies. Roma Est is located in Lunghezza, about 14 km to the east of Rome, in a
catchment area that includes well over 1 million people within a 30-minute drive.

WESTFIELD GOES BESPOKE IN SAN FRANCISCO, REPORTS INCREASE IN OPERATING INCOME

Australian shopping centre giant Westfield Corp. reported a 5.3 per cent increase in first-half operating
income and shared it was progressing with a US$ 11.6 billion investment in global projects. The firm,
which assumed Westfield Group's international operations after its Australian and New Zealand assets

Page125of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.were merged to form a new entity this year, said the results for the six months ended June 30, were 'in
line with expectations'. "The operating performance of our preeminent portfolio of 40 shopping centres in
the United States and United Kingdom remains strong, and in line with expectations," Westfield's co-chief
executives Peter and Steven Lowy said in a statement. "Significant progress (was) made on the US$ 11.6
billion pipeline of current and future developments," they added.
Westfield Group, one of the world's largest shopping centre operators, split its empire in July. Its
Australian and New Zealand businesses, including 47 malls, merged with Westfield Retail Trust to form a
new entity called Scentre Group. The entity has reported property net operating income growth in its
Australian and New Zealand portfolio of 2.3 per cent for the half-year ended June 30. Westfield
Corporation has interests in 44 shopping centres in the United States, Britain and Europe, with assets
under management of US$ 27.7 billion. Among its development pipeline, it said 'good progress' had been
made on its US$ 1.4 billion World Trade Centre project in New York, which is now 70 per cent leased and
is expected to open late next year. The firm has also increased its share of its EUR 1.4 billion (US$ 1.84
billion) Milan development from 50 per cent to 75 per cent, with Galeries Lafayette acting as the anchor
tenant. "Our strategy is to continue the focus on creating and operating iconic assets in major markets
that deliver great experiences for consumers and retailers," said their company statement.
Meanwhile, the Group has also announced the spring launch of Bespoke - a 35,000 sq.ft. of coworking,
demonstration and event space to be built within Westfield San Francisco Centre, set amid the mall's 200
traditional retailers and restaurants. The Bespoke project comes at a time when mall developers are
weathering the rise of nimble online retailers and struggling for relevance with the next generation.
Westfield hopes to appeal to both shoppers looking for entertainment and to retailers - startups and
established ones - hungry to test prototypes on their target customers. This is the first project of its kind
from Westfield, the mall's owner, which has gained an international reputation for investing in technology.
After two years of planning with partner Forest City, the national real estate developer, it is an experiment
in the hotbed of retailtech fervour. According to experts, it is an approach that is thus far unique. While
Westfield Corp.

Operates 40 malls around the world, Bespoke is a local idea. It is the brainchild of Westfield Corp.'s Co-
CEO Steven Lowy working with Global Chief Digital Officer Kevin McKenzie, who runs Westfield Labs.
Two years ago, Labs was formed to experiment with ways to link the digital shopper with the physical
world, and Bespoke - its most high-profile project to date - was tailored to the types of startups with which
Labs o en meets. These might include developers of wearable tech, location-based apps and
user-generated content platforms, and online only retailers and 'traditional' retailers looking to innovate.
Bespoke's planned work space includes mall-facing 'conference rooms' that transition into pop-up
storefronts, turning the mall into an ultimate retail laboratory and its 20 million yearly visitors into its test
subjects. Shoppers will be able to test unreleased products, while entrepreneurs will have a chance to
observe valuable real-world reactions without the commitment of a traditional storefront. Another key
feature is the 18,000-sq.ft. event facility. Amid reports that suggest mall foot traffic is witnessing a
slowdown in recent years, this might as well just be a pie-in-the-sky idea created in hopes of rescuing an
outdated shopping trip. In fact, Bespoke comes at a time when malls are no longer just a place to buy
stuff. Rather than using foot traffic numbers, mall operators now look at factors such as occupancy as
indicators of health. In addition to observing retail-tech startups toiling in Bespoke's shared office spaces,
visitors will be able to test products before they hit the market and a end fashion shows and speaker
sessions behind the demo area's 30-ft. digital walls.

CO
IN

NS

RE

coldb : CBRE Group, Inc. | shenzv : China Vanke Company Limited | crlylg : The Carlyle Group
i6560011 : Shopping Malls/Superstores | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i656 : Mixed Retailing | iretail : Retail |
i501 : Building Construction | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150203 : Private Equity | i85 :
Real Estate Transactions | i8500021 : Office Real Estate | ialtinv : Alternative Investments | icireal :
Commercial/Industrial Real Estate | iconst : Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ifinal :
Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities | ireest : Real Estate
cacqu : Acquisitions | c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin
: C&E Industry News Filter
dubai : Dubai | austr : Australia | italy : Italy | lazio : Lazio | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | gulfstz : Persian Gulf Region |
meastz : Middle East | medz : Mediterranean | uae : United Arab Emirates | wasiaz : Western Asia | weurz
: Western Europe

PUB Images Multimedia Pvt. Ltd.
AN

Document ATSHOC0020141028eaas0000b

Page126of266©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.