$14.6b high-risk Simandou project 'not on our radar': Aurizon

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
$14.6b high-risk Simandou project 'not on our radar': Aurizon

Amanda Saunders
627 words
29 May 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
27
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Heavy haulage rail giant Aurizon has all but ruled out investing in the $US13.5 billion ($14.6 billion)
greenfield infrastructure project underpinning Rio Tinto's Simandou high-grade iron ore mine in
Guinea.
Some analysts had speculated the project could interest Aurizon, but the company told The
Australian Financial Review Simandou "is not on our radar".

Aurizon's lack of appetite for the high-risk project plays to industry speculation that state-backed
Chinese and Middle Eastern investors are the most realistic candidates to fund Simandou's
infrastructure. Sovereign and construction risk could be too high for traditional "western" commercial
investors.

Aurizon shareholders would likely find a Simandou play hard to swallow, particularly given the rail
giant is focused on gaining a coveted infrastructure foothold in the Pilbara. It has lobbed a joint
$1.42 billion bid with Baosteel for Aquila Resources. Ownership of Aquila would give Aurizon control
of the $6 billion infrastructure component of the greenfield West Pilbara iron ore project.

Rio is spruiking the Simandou infrastructure project to investors.

It has been working on Simandou for 18 years and this week struck a landmark deal for the troubled
$US20 billion project. Observers say the deal strategically transfers the key risk and the lion's share
of funding onto a prospective consortium of infrastructure investors.Rio's control cemented
At the same time, it cements Rio's control of Simandou – the world's richest, undeveloped iron ore
deposit.

UBS analyst Glyn Lawcock says Simandou will add more low-cost, high-quality tonnes (at a 65 per
cent grade) to an oversupplied market.

"It is likely to increase the market's concerns about the impact of high-quality product on the discount
that lower quality ores are required to offer," he wrote.
UBS tips an iron ore surplus of 74 million tonnes this year, ballooning to 270 million tonnes in 2017.

Fund managers say this week's "clever" deal allows Rio to minimise its spend, and prevents rivals
snaffling the iron ore assets. "It provides them with a series of outs, and keeps everyone else out," a
source said.
Rio has restructured the project to hive off the $US13.5 billion infrastructure project – a
650-kilometre, multi-user rail line and deep-water port needed to ferry the ore from remote Guinea –
into a separate vehicle.

Page118of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Rio leads the joint venture that owns the greenfield $US6.5 billion Simandou iron ore assets, with
partners Chinalco and the World Bank's International Finance Corporation. After years of protracted
negotiations, the parties inked a deal this week with the Guinean government, that will deliver the
State a 7.5 per cent stake in the vehicle. The infrastructure assets will be returned to the government
after 30 years. Return of 10pc needed

Mr Lawcock says the infrastructure consortium will need a 10 per cent return on investment to justify
footing a $US13.5 billion bill. He tips all-in port and rail charges of $US27 a tonne – reduced if other
users came on board.

Any infrastructure consortium would likely push for a long-term take-or-pay commitment from the
Rio-led mining vehicle. If costs were too high, Rio could use that as an out.

Rio has said Simandou could get up by the end of the decade.
Rio has made back much of the $3 billion it has spent on Simandou.
to date, including by selling a 47 per cent interest in the mining vehicle to Chinalco for $US1.35
billion in 2010.

Provided this week's deal is ratified by the Guinean parliament, a bankable feasibility study will be run,
which Rio says would be done within a year.

CO
IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

dorval : Aurizon Mines Ltd | rtz : Rio Tinto PLC | craaus : Rio Tinto Ltd | hclamn : Hecla Mining Co
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | i22 : Primary Metals |
ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i2112 : Gold Ore/Silver Ore Mining
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | gurep : Guinea | africaz : Africa | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
dvpcoz : Developing Economies | wafrz : West Africa
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140528ea5t0000h

Page119of232©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.