Growth in Chinese private investment

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Growth in Chinese private investment

Matt Chambers
437 words
23 September 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
20
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Chinese private investment in Australian resources is expected to continue growing as private
enterprises increasingly link with state-owned enterprises looking for nimble partners, and debt
financing becomes easier to get.
Scott Gardiner, managing partner at King & Wood Mallesons, told the International Mining and
Resources Conference in Melbourne yesterday that while deals were small in number and size, they
were increasing.

“The trend is clearly heading in a positive direction, so I would expect we will see more private
transactions in Australia,” Mr Gardiner said “I also think we will see a greater interaction between the
(Chinese) private sector and state-owned enterprises,” he said.

“There is a nimbleness that private investors can bring to Australia that to date the state-owned
enterprises haven’t had.” Illustrating the nimbleness of the private enterprises, he pointed out that all
hostile Chinese bids for listed companies here had been made by private companies.
Mr Gardiner said the 2013 deal where private Chinese company Chengdu Tianqi Industry teamed
up with China Investment Corp to buy Talison Lithium (owner of the Greenbushes mine in Western
Australia) for $646 million was an example of the state-private partnerships that could become more
common.
Private Chinese firms have been more aggressive in Australian resources sector in the past couple
of years, while state-owned companies that bought up big after the global financial crisis have
stepped back as investments such as Citic Pacific’s beleaguered Sino Iron project have struggled.
Private deals, such as China Molybdenyum’s $900m purchase of Rio Tinto’s NorthParkes copper
mine in NSW, have not been large, possibly due to recent changes to the approvals process that
make it easier for deals of less than $US1 billion to get approval from the National Development and
Reform Commission.

Paul Glasson, chairman of Shanghai-based Sartori Investments, said capital options for private
entities were growing.

“Up until last year it was nearly impossible for a privately-owned enterprise to get debt funding (from
an SOE) for an overseas project, but that is changing,” Mr Glasson said.
But it was not all smooth sailing for small firms, a Chinese private equity investor told the
conference. Biao Chen, managing partner at Jinjiang Mining Fund, said Chinese banks were much
keener to lend to state-owned enterprises because of the security they provided, regardless of the
quality of the minerals project being funded.
“The Chinese banking system is not purely market-based, it is probably half market-based,” Mr Chen
said.“Fortunately, the current government realises this problem and is trying to change it.”

Page69of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS
RE

PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140922ea9n0002m

Page70of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.