Italian dairy giant buys Harvey Fresh

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

EARLY GENERAL NEWS
Italian dairy giant buys Harvey Fresh

ANDREW MARSHALL and JESSICA HAYES
991 words
3 April 2014
Farm Weekly
FFARMW
10
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

PARMALAT Australia this week purchased WA dairy and fruit juice business Harvey Fresh.

And Harvey Fresh director Kevin Sorgiovanni believes there are endless opportunities for suppliers,
following the announced acquisition of the WA-based company on Tuesday by the Italian
multi-national dairy giant.

Parmalat took over operations last week after acquiring 100 per cent of Harvey Food and Beverage
Limited shares.
Parmalat's global headquarters paid about $120 million for Harvey's WA and New South Wales
processing assets.

"From a supply point of view the opportunities are endless," Mr Sorgiovanni said.
"That is because Parmalat is a global dairy business and the opportunities to sell more dairy
product, particularly in South East Asia, are endless.

"We have been in Asia for 20 years but these guys have been in there for 70 years.

"They have the ability to open doors, whereas I have the ability to knock on doors, so we are quite
excited about the business in terms of what it can do."
Four existing Harvey Fresh directors will remain in the business as consultants.

Mr Sorgiovanni said current export operations to Fiji, Papua New Guinea, the Philippines, Singapore,
Malaysia, Vietnam, Hong Kong, China and Korea would continue.
Harvey Fresh is WA's largest dairy and juice business and exporter, shipping about one quarter of
its products, including 130 million litres of milk and 100 million litres of fruit juice products.
Harvey Fresh was a family company established in 1986 as a fruit juice processing venture, now
producing fresh and long-life lines.

It first exported cloudy apple juice to Asia in 1988 and now sends a variety of fruit and vegetables
juices to export markets.
Harvey Fresh also specialises in producing fresh and ultra heat-treated (UHT) milk dairy products
including flavoured and lactose-free milk lines, and packs private label milk and juice lines for Coles
supermarkets.
In 1999 the company diversified into producing its own Harvey River Bridge Estate wine from
grapes source within WA's cool climate Geographe region and it also packs house brand wine
labels.

Page134of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Harvey Fresh's significant juice beverage business was expanded with the purchase of the Nugan
Group at Griffith in the NSW Riverina in 2012, picking up a big fruit and vegetable juice customer
base and more than 12,000 square metres of production and cool room facilities.
The company's two production facilities at Harvey and Hanwood employ about 250 staff.
According to Mr Sorgiovanni, Parmalat would retain the Harvey Fresh brand due to the value of its
market-leading position in WA and export markets.

He said Parmalat had expressed a strong desire to drive expansion, which would provide additional
opportunities for Harvey Fresh suppliers.

"There are significant opportunities for Harvey Fresh suppliers, particularly in areas where Harvey
Fresh does not have a strong brand presence, such as flavoured milk and yogurt, as well as in
export markets," he said.
Farm Weekly asked Mr Sorgiovanni how Parmalat would fill an increased demand for dairy products
in the domestic and international market in the context of falling WA production figures.

"We are very mindful of the shrinkage of the WA supply but at the same time we are also trying to
stimulate the supply," Mr Sorgiovanni said.

"We think we are doing a reasonably good job.
"If you look at our milk intake compared to this time last year, our intake into our factory is actually
up.
"Our market volume into our dairy for the month of March actually increased on last year."
Mr Sorgiovanni said the the family had been looking to grow the business for about seven years,
spending considerable money on expanding the dairy operations in WA.
He said there had been a variety of interest in the business, particularly from South East Asia, but it
was initial discussions with Parmalat about "co-pack" arrangements that quickly moved to a
corporate transaction and eventually a full acquisition.

Parmalat said the deal was part of its strategy to grow its Australian and export activities and gives
the company a footprint in the west.
"With this transaction, the Parmalat Group strengthens its position in the Australian market,
broadening its geographic footprint and becomes a fully national player," a company statement
announced.

The acquisition would also further improve Parmalat's export capability taking advantage of Harvey's
20-plus years of export contacts.
Parmalat, one of the world's biggest dairy processing businesses, has had a foothold in the
Australian market since buying the Haberfields Dairy processing operation at Albury Wodonga in
1996, followed soon after by Brisbane-based Pauls.
Parmalat outbid National Foods in 1998 to buy Pauls for $436m, also giving it dairy plants in
Victoria at Bendigo and Rowville.
WAFarmers dairy section president Phil Depiazzi said the sale would be a positive for the WA
industry if Parmalat was serious about developing export markets.

"If they get serious in the export area, they are going to need more supply and there is one thing that
pushes supply and that is an increase in price," Mr Depiazzi said.
"If they want extra milk they will have to pay farmers a bit extra to secure that supply."
Mr Depiazzi said the acquisition showed there was a positive outlook for dairy on the world stage.
"These big companies must see a very positive future for dairy and see the demand going forward,"
he said.

"So they are prepared to invest in processing plants to ensure they are part of that action.

"Ideally you'd love to keep it in Australian hands but at the end of the day you can't determine that.

Page135of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."And if these guys are able to get out there and push markets and add value to local products and
increase farm-gate price that gives benefit to local farmers."

i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i413 : Dairy Products | ijuice : Fruit Juices | i41 :
Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i428 : Soft Drinks | ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods |
ifood : Food Products | inonal : Non-alcoholic Beverages/Drinks
cacqu : Acquisitions | c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FFARMW0020140402ea4300013

IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page136of296©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.