Tomorrow's problems are here: Costello

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Tomorrow's problems are here: Costello

Tony Boyd
866 words
14 June 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
56
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Chanticleer

More than a decade after he first sounded the alarm about the looming potential federal budget crisis
from the costs of an ageing population, former Treasurer Peter Costello thinks Australians have
slipped back into complacency.

Costello, who is now chairman of the $100 billion Future Fund, says Australians need to be reminded
that the problem of the baby boomers moving into retirement is no longer something in the distant
future. As he said in an interview with Chanticleer on Friday: "It's upon us and it's starting to happen
now".

"We were warning 10 years ago it was starting to happen and by 2020 it's going to be fully in swing.
That's going to be the thing that dominates Australia's budgets from 2020 onwards – it's going to be
the ageing of the population and the pressure that is going to put on retirement pensions and medical
expenses."
Australia's health expenditure was about 9.5 per cent of gross domestic product or $140 billion in
2013, according to a report released this week by UBS analyst Andrew Goodsall.

He says the health bill has been rising at a compound annual growth rate of 8 per cent. The bill will hit
$170 billion in 2015 and the government will pay about $66.9 billion of that amount.

Over the next 10 years, the proportion of the population over the age of 65 will rise from 14.4 per cent
to 16.8 per cent. Goodsall says those aged over 65 consume healthcare services at two to three times
the rate of the general population.

In fiscal 2013, the cohort aged over 65 accounted for 49 per cent of benefits paid under private health
insurance despite representing just 15.5 per cent of the insured population. Of course, the
UBS analysis was produced to encourage investors to consider putting their savings into a sector that
should deliver 6 to 8 per cent growth in GP services and pathology and 7 to 8 per cent growth in
private hospitals and diagnostic imaging.

Costello's concern is that Australians have lost sight of the economic and fiscal implications of an
ageing population. He pioneered the publication of Intergenerational Reports which were prepared by
Treasury and examined every economic aspect of the ageing population.

"I think the first couple of Intergenerational Reports were really good and they really helped people
understand the problem but then they fell into disuse under Labor," Costello says. "I think it's important
to bring them back and explain to people what the situation is now. The ageing of the population just
means the call on government resources is going to grow year after year."

Thanks to the Charter of Budget Honesty, the federal government must publish a new
Intergenerational Report every five years. The last one was published in January 2010 under then

Page6of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Treasurer Wayne Swan. That report warned that unless real expenditure was restrained the fiscal gap
associated with an ageing population would rise to 20 per cent of GDP by 2050.

Costello was speaking following the appointment of David Neal as chief executive of the Future Fund.
He said Neal, who was previously chief investment officer, was chosen after a global search.
Two of the richest mining entrepreneurs in Perth, Tony Poli and Chris Ellison, are learning the hard
way about the dangers of playing brinksmanship with one of the world's biggest steel makers,
Chinese company Baosteel.
Baosteel is trying to take over Aquila in partnership with rail company Aurizon. Aquila is focused on
developing the West Pilbara Iron Ore Project in Western Australia. It is special because it will involved
650 kilometres of new rail lines and a new port at a cost of $6 billion.

The takeover deal was going nowhere for about a month with Poli, who owns 30 per cent of Aquila,
unwilling to engage with the bidders in any meaningful way.
Then this week the takeover came alive when Ellison's mining services and contracting company,
Mineral Resources, pounced on Aquila and bought a 12.78 per cent stake. Ellison paid $3.75 a share,
well above the $3.40 offer made by Baosteel and Aurizon. In the wake of that purchase there was talk
that Ellison had bought himself a seat at the table and could end up being a contractor on the project
under the ownership of Baosteel and Aurizon.

But on Friday Baosteel made its offer final and declared the West Pilbara project was at an impasse.
Baosteel and Aurizon said if the bid is unsuccessful Baosteel sees no meaningful prospect for being
involved in the development of the project.
The Chinese have warned that it may sell out if the takeover is not successful. But with Baosteel
owning 20 per cent and the bid having a 50 per cent acceptance condition the deal could yet happen.

However it is rare for a bidder to say an offer is final without also saying "in the absence of higher
offer". That points to the Chinese frustration at what is happening.

tony.boyd@afr.com.au Twitter @TonyBoydAFR

Tony Boyd

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

dorval : Aurizon Mines Ltd | hclamn : Hecla Mining Co
iprivhea : Private Health Insurance | i82 : Insurance | i82003 : Non-life Insurance | i8200301 :
Health/Medical Insurance | ifinal : Financial Services | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | igoldm : Gold Ore Mining | imet : Mining/Quarrying
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140613ea6e00007

Page7of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.