Carmen scrapped for smoking

HD Carmen scrapped for smoking
WC 5,036 words
PD 31 October 2014
SN TJI Tobacco Journal International
SC TJITOB
PG 006
LA
CY Copyright 2014. Konradin Selection GmbH
LP

English

· Australia
10 Oct 2014. The West Australian Opera Company has dumped a planned production of the opera
Carmen for the 2015 and 2016 seasons because some of its scenes feature smoking, newspaper The
West Australian reported. The 140-year-old opera by French composer Georges Bizet will be banned from
the company's programme as part of a two-year partnership with state government health agency
Healthway. The opera features scenes taking place in and around a cigar factory and also features
smoking. “We care about the health and well being of our staff, stage performers and all the opera lovers
throughout WA, which means promoting health messages and not portraying any activities that could be
seen to promote unhealthy behaviour,” Carolyn Chard, opera general manager, told the newspaper.

TD

· Australia

E-cigs treated like cigarettes

09 Sep 2014. Queensland plans to treat e-cigarettes like their tobacco counterparts, banning vaping in
public places and curtailing retail advertising, the Australian Associated Press (AAP) reported.
Amendments to the Tobacco Act effective 1 Jan, 2015, will make Queensland the first Australian state to
treat e-cigs like tobacco cigarettes, AAP said. Vaping in public venues, both indoors and outdoors, will be
banned along with promotions and advertisements in retail outlets, the news agency said.

· Australia

AUD 1 per cigarette

01 Sep 2014. The second of four hefty annual hikes in tax on cigarettes took effect on 1 Sept, raising the
price per cigarette in a pack of 20 to near AUD 1 (EUR 0.71), the Sydney Morning Herald said. Cigarette
taxes rose 13.7 per cent, AUD 1.12, to AUD 9.25 on a pack of 20 and from AUD 16.26 to 18.51 on a
40-pack, the newspaper said. The increases push the pack price for 20 cigarettes above AUD 20 for some
brands, and the 40-pack price to more than AUD 30. The latest round of tax increases will prompt 60,000
smokers to quit and reduce the number of cigarettes smoked by 800 million, according to Australian
Council on Smoking and Health projections cited by the Herald.

· Australia

Plain packs don't change habits

29 Aug 2014. Tobacco purchasing habits following introduction of plain packaging for tobacco products
have remained constant, according to a study that shows neither a switch to low-cost Asian brands nor a
rise in use of unbranded illicit tobacco. Cancer Council Victoria, which backed the study, said results show
claims by major tobacco companies that plain packaging would harm small business owners were
unfounded. Tobacco purchases from small mixed-business outlets did not declined, and purchases from
supermarkets were steady. The study compared buying habits in 2011 with 2013, the first year of plain
packaging. Use of low cost Asian brands was reported by 0.9 per cent of respondents in 2013 compared
with 1.1 per cent in 2011. Smokers reporting use of unbranded illicit tobacco was 1.9 per cent last year
and 2.3 per cent in 2011. About two thirds of respondents made their purchases in supermarkets in 2013,
compared with 11.2 per cent in small, mixed-business stores.

Page235of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.· Canada

Flavoured cigars targeted

30 Sep 2014. The government has announced new regulations aimed at further restricting flavoured cigar
products that appeal to youth, according to a statement released by the office of Rona Ambrose, minister
of health. Aimed at the “little cigar” market in the country, to which the government already introduced
regulations on flavour additives in 2010, proposed new amendments will prohibit the use of most flavours
and selected additives in cigars weighing between 1.4 and 6 grams. This will also apply to products that
use tipping paper or do not feature a wrapper fitted in spiral form, the statement specified. The amendment
seeks to close an existing loophole in 2010 regulations that banned the use of flavour additives in order to
make cigarettes, little cigars and blunt wraps less appealing to youth. A notice outlining the proposed
amendments will be published in the Canada Gazette on October 10, following which a formal 30-day
consultation period will begin.

· Cuba

Output increase planned

29 Aug 2014. A 70 per cent increase in land dedicated to tobacco production is planned for the next
growing season, Xinhua news agency said in a story citing remarks by Vice President José Ramón
Machado Ventura. Machado, on a visit to Pinar del Rio, the tobacco centre, said quality tobacco from
Cuba is an advantage the country cannot afford to waste, the Chinese news agency reported. Production
in recent years has declined due to lack of a mature infrastructure and aging growers, the vice president
reportedly said. Next season an additional 15,940 hectares (39,400 acres) are to be planted in Pinar del
Rio, which represents about 70 per cent of the current national total, according to Xinhua.

· European Union

PMI lobbyists top spenders

01 Oct 2014. Tobacco giant Philip Morris International spent the most money lobbying European Union
politicians in 2013, the International Business Times reported. According to new data from Lobbyfacts.eu,
the company spent EUR 5.25 million (USD 6.61 million) lobbying the European Parliament in 2013, the
year in which the revised Tobacco Products Directive was being outlined.

The directive, voted in by the European Parliament in February this year, orders the introduction of
pictorial warnings to cover 65 per cent of cigarette packs by 2016, and bans flavoured cigarettes and ten
packs. Philip Morris’ lobbying budget was increased from EUR 1.25 million to EUR 5.25 million over the
year, the International Business Times said. The figures, compiled by LobbyFacts.eu, reveal
petrochemical company, ExxonMobil spent the second largest sum on lobbying in Europe while Microsoft
came in third.

· France

Plain packs in 2016

09 Oct 2014. Health Minister Marisol Touraine said plain packaging for cigarettes will be implemented by
early 2016, Agence France-Presse reported. The French law would be less restrictive than in Australia,
which in 2012 mandated uniform olive-brown packs mostly covered with health warnings. Branding is
strictly limited. France also would mandate packs with the same shape, size, colour and typeface, but
allow, “very discreet,” branding, proscribed in size and pack placement, AFP said. Speaking on French
radio, Touraine said plain packaging “should be in tobacconists at the beginning of the year 2016”, AFP
reported.

· Indonesia

Small factories declining

10 Sep 2014. The number of small cigarette factories has fallen by one third to 1,970 from 3,000 in 2007
as a shrinking market and tougher regulation prompt manufacturers to close their doors, the Jakarta Post
reported. Data from the Association of Cigarette Employers (Gapero) show factories in East Java fell by
half to 563 from 1,100. Of the 400 cigarette makers operating in Malang in 2009, only 77 were
manufacturing four years later, according to data cited by the newspaper. Companies still in business are
cutting their workforces. Bentoel Group, the country's fourth largest cigarette maker, has embarked on a
voluntary redundancy program to cut 1,000 jobs from its workforce of 8,000, the Post said. However the
company plans to produce about 20 billion cigarettes this year, more than in 2013, the newspaper said.

Page236of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.· Ireland

Plain pack plans protested

02 Oct 2014. The US Chamber of Commerce has lodged an objection with the European Commission
over the Irish government's plans to introduce plain packaging for tobacco products, the Irish Times
reported. The chamber, the world's largest business federation, presented a letter detailing its objections
to the plans, together with a statement signed by 70 international business groups to the private secretary
of the Irish Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, Charlie Flanagan, at a chamber-hosted business
breakfast in Washington. Acording to the Irish Times, the chamber's letter of objection is an example of
intense lobbying as the Irish government begins debating the Public Health (Standardised Packaging of
Tobacco) Bill 2014 this week. In a letter dated September 18th, the chamber stated that the plan “sets a
dangerous precedent at the expense of the protection of IP [intellectual property] rights for a number of
industries, not just tobacco.”

· Ireland

Plain-pack complaints filed

18 Sep 2014. Eight European Union countries filed objections to plans by Ireland to introduce plain
packaging for tobacco products, the Irish Times reported. EU countries can file objections to national
legislation in other member states when they believe passage would create a block to the free movement
of goods and service within the internal market. The deadline for objections is 18 Sept, the newspaper
said. Ireland is seeking to become the first EU country, and the second in the world, to ban branding from
tobacco packaging by mandating a uniform colour for packaging, a standard typeface and size for brand
names. Objecting countries are the Czech Republic, Greece, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia and
Spain, the Times said.

· Japan

JT plans to close 2 plants

08 Oct 2014. Japan Tobacco (JT) plans to close manufacturing facilities in Northern Ireland and Belgium
within four years due in part to stricter packaging standards imposed by the European Union, the
company said. “This proposal would affect approximately 1,100 full-time jobs across the EU”, JT said.
Lisnafillan factory, located in Ballymena, County Antrim, and a factory in Wervik, Belgium could be closed
between between 2016 and 2018. Production of other tobacco products (OTP) would be curtailed at a
plant in Trier, Germany, with the exception of manufacturing related to the Ploom heat-not-burn product
that Japan Tobacco International markets under license outside the US. Production from the closed plants
would be shifted to other locations, possibly in Poland and Romania. German OTP production would be
shifted to a location JT did not name. Restructuring plans will be finalized after talks with works councils at
the affected sites and the European Works Council, JT said. “The prolonged challenging economic
environment and excise-tax pressure has triggered industry volume contraction in a number of key
European countries. This is compounded by the need to comply with legislation, including the revised EU
Tobacco Products Directive, which will significantly reduce the number of pack formats to be produced for
various markets”, JT said. Ballymena’s annual cigarette production is 19 billion sticks. The plant makes
Benson & Hedges, Silk Cut and Amber Leaf. Its RYO. Pipe tobacco production is about 7,100 tons and the
site produced 120 million cigars in 2013. Wervik is an RYO/MYO plant that manufactures about 4,400
tons of RYO/MYO products, including Fleur du Pays and Domingo. MYO production at Trier in 2013 was
about 4,500 tons.

· Korea

80 per cent cigarette price hike

11 Sep 2014. Cigarette prices, among the lowest in industrial countries, would rise 80 per cent next year
under a plan announced by the government to cut the smoking rate, the Korea Herald said. A ban on
tobacco advertisements by large retailers would accompany the price hike, the Herald said, citing remarks
by Health and Welfare Minister Moon Hyung-pyo. The proposal by the ruling coalition would raise the price
of cigarettes by KRW 2,000 (EUR 1.49) to an average KRW 4,500. Sales of tobacco products would fall 34
per cent, according to a ministry estimate cited by the Herald. Future cigarette price increases would be
pegged to other consumer prices. Cigarette prices were last increased in 2004, by KRW 500, the
newspaper said. Korea hopes to reduce the adult male smoking rate from 44 per cent to 29 per cent by
2020. The price hike, mostly in the form of tax, would generate an estimated KRW 2.8 trillion for
government coffers, the Herald said.

· Laos

Page237of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Imperial Tobacco on tax deal

06 Oct 2014. Health campaigners have criticised Imperial Tobacco over a tax deal that was struck with the
Laos government in 2001, accusing the tobacco company of depriving local coffers of tens of millions of
GBPs, the Guardian has revealed. The agreement was signed in 2001 between an Imperial-led
consortium and the Laotian government, the Guardian said. It is expected to last until 2026. Under the
terms of the agreement, the consortium pays between 15 and 30 per cent tax on its products, while the
standard rate in the country is 55 per cent. It also states that the consortium may negotiate with the
government “from time to time, preferential taxes and duties for the importation of cigarettes and other
finished tobacco products.” Anti-smoking groups have accused tobacco companies of trying to keep taxes
low in the growth markets of Asia in a bid to make tobacco products more appealing to young smokers.

· South Africa

Illicit market share 30 per cent

21 Aug 2014. Illegal cigarettes account for more than 29 per cent of the market, costing legal
manufacturers about ZAR 2 billion (EUR 141 million) a year in sales, according to South African Revenue
Services (SARS) data. Illicit trade is estimated at 15 million cigarettes a day, the equivalent of 750,000
packs of 20, SARS said in a statement distributed by the South African Government News Agency. “Over
the past 10 years, organised crime groups have advanced from supplying counterfeits to now managing all
aspects of the production process, from sourcing raw tobacco product through to developing specific
tobacco packaging”, SARS said.

· South Africa

Tobacco powered flight
07 Aug 2014. Boeing, South African Airways (SAA) and a company specialising in sustainable aviation
fuel are exploring use of a hybrid tobacco to produce a biofuel low in carbon emissions, the companies
said. SkyNRG is test farming a hybrid plant dubbed Solaris which is “effectively nicotine free”, the
companies said in a joint statement. Biofuel production is expected to begin in the next few years. Initially,
oil from the plant’s seeds will be converted into fuel. Emerging technologies should increase production by
enabling use of the rest of the plant, Boeing said. Boeing and SAA in October, 2013, said they would
cooperate in developing a sustainable aviation supply chain in southern Africa. Sustainably produced
aviation biofuel reduces carbon emissions 50 to 80 per cent, the companies said. More than 1,500
passenger flights have been powered by biofuel since it was approved in 2011.

· Thailand

Hookah import ban mulled

08 Sep 2014. Commerce Ministry officials proposed banning imports of e-cigarettes and hookah/shisha
products after the National Council for Peace and Order said their use must be controlled, the Bangkok
Post reported. Officials at the Department of Foreign Trade, a unit of the Commerce Ministry, proposed the
import bans be attached as a regulation to the Export and Import of Goods Act, the newspaper said on its
website. Calls to curtail their use came in response to their growing popularity among youth, the Post said.

· United Kingdom

E-cig TPD challenge allowed

08 Oct 2014. A court has granted e-cigarette maker Totally Wicked the right to challenge the EU Tobacco
Products Directive before the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU), the company said. Totally
Wicked said it would ask the court in Luxembourg to rule on the lawfulness of Article 20 of the newly
revised Directive, which regulates e-cigarettes for the first time. The article would regulate e-cigarettes
more strictly than some tobacco products, the company said. Free movement of goods and provision of
services would be impinged. A hearing before the EU court should take place next year, Totally Wicked
said. The path was cleared in a preliminary ruling by the Royal Courts of Justice that requested CJEU to
determine whether Article 20 represents a breach of EU law, the e-cigarette company said.

· United Kingdom

Imperial volume dip

20 Aug 2014. Imperial Tobacco reported growth brands volume and net tobacco revenue dipped 1 per
cent in the nine months to 30 June, pushed lower in the third quarter by Mideast political upheaval and a
slumping Russian market. Adjusted for Imperial’s stock optimisation programme, growth brands volume

Page238of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.rose 3 per cent on new market launches and the expansion of Parker & Simpson, the company said.
Growth brand volume, which include JPS, Davidoff and Gauloises, was 91.7 billion stick-equivalent units.
Net tobacco sales were GBP 4.75 billion (EUR 5.93 billion). Performance in the three months to 30 June
was much worse than in the nine-month period. Reported volume fell 8 per cent and underlying sales
declined 5 per cent, the company said without supplying numbers. “Significant decline”, in the Russian
market and Mideast turbulence were cited. “Whilst conditions are tough in a number of our markets, our
footprint provides balance and we’re generating good results in growth markets,” said Chief Executive
Officer Alison Cooper.

· United Kingdom

Vape enters Oxford

18 Aug 2014. Oxford Dictionaries sanctioned the use of vape in the English language by adding the word
to its online service along with other zeitgeist entries like binge-watch, YOLO, subtweet and tech-savvy.
“The Oxford Corpus reveals an approximate tenfold increase in usage of the terms vape and e-cig in the
last two years, as electronic devices which enable people to inhale smokeless nicotine vapour have
become increasingly widespread”, the online service announced. “Despite the fact that e-cigarettes were
not commercially available until the 21st Century, the word vaping dates to 1983, when it was used to
describe a hypothetical smoking device being considered at the time.” E-cigarette was entered into Oxford
online in August, 2012.

WDYT? (Abbreviation/informal: What do you think?)

· United Kingdom

Use of case-trace expanded

05 Aug 2014. Imperial Tobacco expanded use of case-trace to four factories and six markets, increasing
the reach of the anti-illicit trade technology to 11 production sites and 13 European Union markets, the
company said. Case trace allows markets to track bulk supplies through to the customers and identify
product that falls outside the legitimate supply chain, Imperial said. A cross-functional team has workd for
two years to implement the technology. Next phase of the roll-out is Germany and global duty-free
markets, Imperial said.

· United States

Lawmakers tackle child labour

24 Sep 2014. Representative David Cicilline and 34 other House Democrats sent a letter to Labor
Secretary Thomas Perez seeking a ban on children working on tobacco farms, the Associated Press said.
Cicilline has a bill in Congress seeking to amend existing legislation to prohibit children under 18 from
work where they have direct contact with tobacco, the AP said. A May report by Human Rights Watch said
three-quarters of the children it interviewed who worked on tobacco farms reported vomiting, nausea and
other symptoms consistent with nicotine poisoning, which is often called green tobacco sickness.

· United States

Last tobacco buyout checks

17 Sep 2014. Final payments under the buyout program begun to wean tobacco growers off a system of
government price supports and quotas will be mailed in October, the Associated Press said. The Tobacco
Transition Payment Program as it is formally known was begun after the quota program ended in 2004.
Farmers have been compensated since then for surrendering their quotas. The last checks totalling USD
916.5 million (EUR 707.8 million) will be sent to 425,000 tobacco growers and landowners, the AP said.
During the years the buyout was in effect, the number of tobacco farms dropped dramatically but the value
of the US tobacco crop has remained roughly stable for the past decade at around USD 1.5 billion,
according to the AP.

· United States

Logic e-cigs number one

16 Sep 2014. Logic Technology, citing results from Nielsen’s C-Track Database, said its e-cigarettes now
are number one in US convenience-store volume and number two in sales. The survey shows Logic
disposable and rechargeable e-cigs increased market share to account for 24.3 per cent of c-store
e-cigarette volume turnover and 22.9 per cent of sales, the Florida-based company said. Logic retained a

Page239of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.nearly 63 per cent unit share in the Northeast and posted increases in other parts of the country to capture
the number one ranking despite, “significant product launches,” by competitors, the company said.

· United States

Rise in NYC smoking rate

16 Sep 2014. The number of smokers in New York City, a leader in anti-smoking measures and home to
some of the country’s highest cigarette prices, rose for the third consecutive year to pass the one million
mark, the New York Daily News said. From a low of 14 per cent of the adult population in 2010, the
smoking rate increased to 14.8 and 15.5 per cent in following years, and to 16.1 per cent in 2013, the
newspaper said. The national smoking rate is 18 per cent. Anti-smoking measures including bans on
smoking in bars, restaurants and parks have been copied around the world. Announcing the latest data,
city Health Department officials blamed the rise on steep cuts in the municipal tobacco control budget and
failure to target a “new breed” of smokers in their mid-20s to early 40s, the Daily News said.

· United States

22nd Century goes national
03 Sep 2014. 22nd Century Group, a company that adjusts nicotine levels in tobacco via biotechnology,
said it joined the Master Settlement Agreement (MSA) and would begin national marketing of its premium
cigarette brands. 22nd Century and Nasco Products, a manufacturer of tobacco products and MSA
member acquired earlier this year, negotiated an amended adherence agreement to include both
companies. The MSA agreement with governments of US states and territories requires participating
tobacco companies to pay into a fund to reduce costs to health-care providers in return for protection
against future lawsuits to reclaim costs for treating smoking-related illnesses. Red Sun and Magic
premium cigarettes were introduced in 2011, but on a limited basis pending MSA membership. Their
production will be increased in the next 30 days, the company said in a 2 Sept statement. Sales and
distribution campaigns will be launched across the US. 22nd Century is based in New York state and owns
or licenses 129 patents in 78 countries. The plant biotech company developed ways to increase or lower
nicotinic alkaloid levels in tobacco plants via genetic engineering and plant breeding. Wholly owned
subsidiaries include Goodrich Tobacco Company and Hercules Pharmaceuticals.

· United States

CVS goes tobacco-free

03 Sep 2014. Cigarette displays at 7,700 CVS stores were removed as of midnight on 2 Sept and replaced
with anti-smoking signs as the pharmacy chain made good on its promise to stop selling tobacco products,
the New York Times reported. Renamed CVS Health, the company’s decision is seen as a strategic move
to better position the company in a growing health care industry, according to the Times. CVS Health
describes itself as the largest pharmacy health-care provider in the US, and operates 900 ‘minute clinics’
that offer basic medical services at its stores. In February CVS announced it would end tobacco sales by
October, a move which came earlier than announced.

· United States

Snus comment period

26 Aug 2014. The Food and Drug Administration set a 180-day public comment period on an application
by Swedish Match to have its General brand snus approved as a less risky tobacco product, the
Associated Press reported. It is the first time the agency responsible for tobacco regulation has asked for
public input on a modified risk tobacco product (MRTP), the AP said. The entire review process is
expected to take about one year.

· United States

Universal sales plummet

11 Aug 2014. Universal Corporation sales fell 37 per cent, resulting in an operating loss of USD 8.2 million
(EUR 6.1 million) for the three months to 30 June as customer orders slowed in an oversupplied market,
the company said. Sales declined to USD 271.5 million from USD 433.5 million. The operating loss
contrasted with a profit of USD 86.5 million a year ago. “Our first quarter of fiscal year 2015 has been
heavily influenced by lower volumes that are a result of typical oversupply market patterns, including a
slow start in Brazil and later timing of customer orders and current crop shipments,” said Chief Executive
Officer George Freeman. “A predominance of our shipments should occur in the second half of the fiscal
year,” he said. “Due to the current season's production oversupply, we continue to take a measured

Page240of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.approach to the remainder of fiscal year 2015. Markets have been developing slowly in some origins as
customers have been monitoring market conditions while evaluating their leaf needs and inventory
durations, and shipping has been progressing at a slower pace than normal,” Freeman said.

· United States

Alliance One profitability rises
07 Aug 2014. Alliance One Internationalsold 37.5 per cent less tobacco but improved profitability in the
three months to 30 June as adverse weather delayed green tobacco purchases, the company said. Kilos
sold fell to 47.7 million and sales declined 35.1 per cent to USD 249 million (EUR 186 million) in Alliance
One’s first fiscal quarter. Increased operating efficiency nearly doubled profit as a percentage of sales to
14.1 per cent from 7.4 per cent in the comparable quarter last year, the company said. Gross profit rose
23.2 per cent to USD 35.1 million. “Challenging weather conditions in some regions and global markets
that have entered oversupply have delayed purchasing green tobacco,” said Chief Executive Officer Pieter
Sikkel. “Market prices paid for green tobacco from suppliers have been generally lower than last year. This
is consistent with conditions highlighted at fiscal year-end 2014. The slow start reduced first quarter sales
versus last fiscal year and is expected to have the same impact through the second quarter, but should
normalize and result in similar full year revenue.”

· United States

Call for stricter e-cig curbs

07 Aug 2014. A letter signed by 13 members of Congress calls on the Food and Drug Administration
(FDA) to ban online sales of e-cigarettes and remove e-liquids with fruit and candy-based flavours from the
market. FDA is taking comments on how to regulate e-cigarettes and other non-regulated tobacco
products until 8 Aug. The agency has said it will not extend the comment period. Released by Senate
Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Chairman Tom Harkin, the letter also recommends a ban on
marketing e-cigarettes to children, including celebrity endorsements and “the pushing of brands through
sexy television and print advertisements.” It is signed by 10 senators and three representatives and
addressed to FDA Commissioner Margaret Hamburg. “Strong regulatory actions on marketing to children,
e-cigarette flavours, and online sales cannot wait,” the letter states.

· United States

Tobacco to the rescue

05 Aug 2014. Two American aid workers infected with the Ebola virus in Africa have been treated with a
serum grown by genetically modified tobacco plants, the Lexington Herald-Leader reported. Mapp
Biopharmaceuticals of California developed a compound containing a cocktail of antibodies given the
name ZMapp. This compound is introduced into GM tobacco plants, which build proteins like a
photocopier until enough have been made to extract desired elements and purify them into a serum, the
newspaper said on its website. Kentucky BioProcessing, a subsidiary of Reynolds American since
January, grows the drug. Tobacco plants readily pick up inserted genes, making them suitable vehicles for
growing larger volumes of a compound inexpensively and within weeks, the newspaper said. Until now,
the treatment has only been tested on animals. Dr Kent Brantly and Nancy Writebol were treated in
Atlanta, Georgia, after contracting the virus in Liberia.

· United States

Mislabelled RYO costly

04 Aug 2014. Manufacturers who re-label cigarette rolling tobacco (RYO) for use in pipes to avoid higher
taxes are costing the government billions, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) said in a report
cited by Reuters. Adding a few ounces of tobacco to small cigars so they qualify as low-tax large cigars is
another form of evasion cited in the news story. GAO estimates USD 2.6 billion (EUR billion) to USD 3.7
billion in excise tax revenue was lost from April, 2009, to February, 2014, Reuters said.

· United States

Blu eCig stumbles

31 Jul 2014. Sales of blu eCigs, the US market leader in store sales, fell by more than one third in the
second quarter as the introduction of competing products by national companies cut into market share,
said parent company Lorillard.

Page241of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Market share dipped to just below 41 per cent in the 13 weeks to 5 July. Market share for the Lorillard
e-cigarette product was 45 per cent as of 15 March. Both Reynolds American and Altria expanded
marketing of their e-products Vuse and MarkTen as they worked toward national launches late in the
second quarter.

· World

WHO weighs in on e-cigs

26 Aug 2014. The World Health Organisation (WHO) called for bans on advertising and indoor use of
e-cigarettes in a report that will go before a plenary session of the Framework Convention on Tobacco
Control this autumn, Reuters reported. E-cigarettes pose a risk to public health and should be kept away
from children, the report reportedly states. The WHO report criticizes involvement of tobacco firms in e-cig
development.

· Zimbabwe

Tobacco volume up 30 per cent

29 Sep 2014. The volume of flue-cured Virginia tobacco increased by 30 per cent in 2014, according to
Tobacco Industry and Marketing Board (TIMB) statistics reported by News Day. Tobacco production rose
from 166.6 million kg in 2013 to 216.2 million kg during the marketing season ended 12 Sept. A 12 per
cent rise in earnings from USD 612.1 million (EUR 485.95 million) to USD 685.2 million was recorded.
Despite this, the average tobacco price per kg of tobacco dropped 14 per cent to USD 3.17. The volume of
tobacco generated through contracts rose. In 2014, 76.5 per cent of total production was contracted, while
23.5 per cent went through auction houses. This compares to 68 per cent contract and 32 per cent auction
the previous year.

IN
NS

RE

i429 : Tobacco Products | i4291 : Cigarettes | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp : Consumer Goods
gsmok : Smoking | greg : Regional Politics | gabus : Drug/Substance Usage | gcat : Political/General News
| gcom : Society/Community/Work | ghea : Health | gmed : Medical Conditions | gpir : Politics/International
Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gsoc : Social Issues
austr : Australia | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz :
Western Europe

PUB Konradin Business GmbH
AN Document TJITOB0020141031eaav00007

Page242of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.