(AE) Ferret's MOVING FACES

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

(AE) Ferret's MOVING FACES

1,014 words
10 June 2014
Ralph Wragg Australian Business News
AAPRAW
English
Copyright 2014 RWE AUSTRALIAN BUSINESS NEWS PTY LTD. All Rights Reserved.

Sydney - Tuesday - June 10: (RWE Australian Business News) - A list of changes of management within
ASX-listed companies.

Moving in ...

* Commonwealth Bank of Australia has appointed Shirish Apte and David Higgins as independent
non-executive directors Mr Apte's appointment is effective today while Sir David will join the board on
September 1. The appointments continue the bank's move towards greater diversity in experience and
background, with both new directors having carried out senior international business roles and both
being currently based outside Australia.

* Ross Burney has been elected chairman of OnCard International Ltd, having been a non-executive
director of the company since May 2010. Directors also confirmed the appointment of Tony Robinson to
the position of managing director, as foreshadowed in the chairman's address to the annual meeting held
on May 29.

* Telecom Corporation of New Zealand Ltd has appointed Ido Leffler as an independent non-executive
director to replace Kevin Roberts, who retired from the board after serving for almost six years.
Chairman Mark Verbiest said, "Ido's appointment will help Telecom's development of exciting new digital
services as we transform to Spark and tackle the challenges and opportunities of the digital era. His
experience positively complements the mix of skills and experience of the existing board members."
* Fonterra Co-operative Group Ltd has announced the appointment of Robert Spurway to the role of
managing director Global Operations, a newly created position on Fonterra's management team. He is
currently acting director New Zealand Operations in NZ Milk Products. Mr Spurway has more than 20
years' experience in the food and dairy industries.
* Stuart Smith has been appointed as an executive director of Lion Energy Ltd, based in Singapore, with
chief responsibility for all finance aspects of the group. He has been nominated to the Lion board by
Risco Energy Investments Pte Ltd pursuant to its rights under the Risco placement agreement dated
September 20 2013. Mr Smith has over 20 years of experience in the energy industry. He spent 16 years
in investment banking specialising in the energy sector including involvement in equity research, floats,
secondary capital raisings and M&A.
* Matthew Sullivan and Andrew Sparke have joined the board of Cascade Resources Ltd. Mr Sullivan,
the incoming managing director, is a geologist and listed company director with 25 years experience
working in the Goldfields of WA. He is one of only six geologists in Australia to find more than 3Mozs
twice. Mr Sparke, the incoming non-executive chairman, has 10 years' Corporate Finance experience
that includes IPOs, private placements and secondary market transactions.

* Matthew Hill has been appointed as non-executive director of Broken Hill Prospecting Ltd after acting
as alternate director of Geoffrey Hill since March 14 2012. He has more than 20 years' experience in
financial services and investment banking, and is currently managing director of New Talisman Gold
Mines Ltd and non-executive director of So Co Ltd, both substantial shareholders of the company.
* Amy Wang has been appointed as a non-executive director of Cauldron Energy Ltd. The company has
agreed to appoint an additional Chinese director to the board upon completion of the placement to
Guangrong Investment Management Co Ltd.

Page282of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.* Emeco Holdings Ltd today announced the appointment of Thao Vanderplancke as company secretary
and general counsel. The appointment was made after Michael Kirkpatrick (EGM Corporate Services and
company secretary) informed the company of his intention to resign, effective July 1. Managing director
Ken Lewsey thanked Mr Kirkpatrick for his significant contribution to Emeco over the past decade. Ms
Vanderplancke is a qualified legal practitioner in Western Australia and has been with Emeco for three
years, most recently as the senior legal counsel.
* Sachin Saraf has been appointed as company secretary and financial controller of Bounty Oil & Gas
NL. Mr Saraf has significant experience in upstream petroleum production operations with several
ASX-listed energy companies.

Moving On ...
* Paul Berndt, the managing director of Tungsten Mining NL, has announced his intention to stand down
from his role to pursue other opportunities. Mr Berndt will continue as a non-executive director, and will
provide consultancy services to the company. Directors thanked Mr Berndt for his outstanding
contribution in his two years with TGN. As inaugural managing director he oversaw its IPO in December
2012, and the growth of the Company since then.

* Vocation Ltd has announced that, with the integration of CSIA and Vocation's other founding
businesses now complete, Brett Whitford, a Vocation executive and the founder of the former CSIA
business, will leave the business. As a founding shareholder of Vocation, 50pc of Mr Whitford's shares
are escrowed until the first business day after the FY2015 results are released. The remaining 50pc will
be released from escrow on the first day after the release of the FY2016 results.

* Ernest Boswarva has resigned as a director of Syngas Ltd and was replaced by Anne Cox. Mrs Cox is
a partner in Solidus Financial Services and has been involved in the management of Syngas since the
Company moved its operations from Melbourne to Sydney. She was acting in the capacity of office
manager and will be a non-executive director.

* Kevin Dart has tendered his resignation as a director of Conquest Agri Ltd to allow him to devote more
time to his other business interests. The board accepted Mr Dart's resignation with regret and thanked
him for his contribution over the past five years.

The vacancy left by Mr Dart will be filled by Steven Cole, who will also continue in his position as
company secretary. Mr Cole has more than 25 years' experience as a public company officer and is an
integral part of the company's current due diligence process in the proposed acquisition of Priority One
Network Group Ltd.
* Lillian Savage has resigned as a director of Sherwin. "The board is extremely appreciative of Lillian's
contribution to the company since joining the board in December 2013," executive chairman Rodney
Illingworth said.

* Joanna Szymanska-Bulska resigned as a director of SciGen Ltd.

CO
IN
NS

telcnz : Telecom Corporation of New Zealand Ltd
i7902 : Telecommunications
c411 : Management Moves | c41 : Management Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB RWE Australian Business News Pty Ltd
AN

Document AAPRAW0020140610ea6a0015p

Page283of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.