Ed Lippmann-designed Butterfly House, Dover Heights sells

HD
WC 364 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

Ed Lippmann-designed Butterfly House, Dover Heights sells

9 January 2014
Property Observer
PMPROP
English
Copyright 2014 Private Media Partners Pty Ltd

The Butterfly House at Dover Heights has been sold for an impressive $5.97 million.
It last traded in 2010 for $5.05 million when bought by telco company owner Michael Yi and his wife,
Michelle, who live mostly in Jakarta.

TD

They had previously listed the property with $6.5 million plus hopes before listing again late last year with
$5 million plus expectations through Adam Ross and Shayne Harris at Savills Sydney inconjunction
with Ray White Double Bay agents Elliott Placks and Gavin Rubinstein.
It first sold in 2008 for $4.9 million when still incomplete. The metamorphosed Butterfly House, had been
fully renovated since its 2010 purchase. It featured in a recent Property Observer discussion on its
practical versus architectural merits.

Spread over six split levels, the location has views over both the ocean and harbour.

Five bedrooms are in the eastern wing while the living areas take full advantage of vistas towards the
Opera House, city skyline and Bridge.

The residence’s north facing aspect allows light to flow throughout the home, along with the natural
ventilation system.

It was 1996 when the architect Ed Lippmann received a request to create a home with “no straight lines” -
one he did not believe was serious but the client was a firm believer in feng shui, Chinese laws
governing how spatial arrangement affects energy flow.

But he was also as visionary as Mr Lippmann. The plans, which took countless hours, created a
residence never before built in Australia with no harsh angles or corners.

It is suggested the requirement for all glass panels to be curved even prompted glass manufacturing into
new territory.

The home was built by 2005 described as a piece of sculpture that works as a house.

The initial owner sold the home before final details were completed, and Mr Lippmann has worked with
the current owner to complete the finishes in the home add such fixtures as the Crestron home
automation, custom joinery and panelling before adding the gym, cinema room and final joinery in recent
months.

The property has been bought by the Selim family.

news@propertyobserver.com.au

greest : Real Estate/Property | gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

NS
RE
PUB Private Media Partners Pty Ltd.
AN

Document PMPROP0020140109ea1900004

Page181of276©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.