LMEWEEK-LME week loses some lustre as belts tighten, focus shifts East

HD
BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

LMEWEEK-LME week loses some lustre as belts tighten, focus shifts East

By Melanie Burton and Harpreet Bhal
676 words
20 October 2014
18:10
Reuters News
LBA
English
Copyright 2014 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.

SYDNEY/LONDON Oct 20 (Reuters) - As metals executives fly into London for the industry's most
glamorous week, its best years may be over as sinking metals prices and rising costs tear holes in
budgets, and the industry epicentre heads east.

For decades, heavyweights in the metals business have met in London each October to hammer out
the ensuing year's terms of trade, based around the London Metal Exchange (LME), a 137-year-old
institution set up when the British Empire controlled much of the world's trade.

It has grown into a glittering event. Brokerages and banks hire out London's most exclusive nightspots,
packing out Mayfair hotels for a stream of parties around Tuesday's gala dinner at the Grosvenor Hotel.
But as buying power moves to Asia - underlined by Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd's purchase
of the LME two years ago - this year's event looks more austere with some parties cancelled or
downscaled, and talk among particpants that total numbers may be lower.

"I suspect numbers in London will have peaked last year or will peak this year," said Jeremy Goldwyn,
a director in charge of Asian business for commodities broker Sucden, one of 10 firms which still trade
on the LME floor, Europe's last open outcry ring.

In some ways the week is a victim of its own success. To grow its brand, the LME began holding a
dinner in Asia in three years ago. The event attracted 1,500 guests this year, up 70 percent from 2013.
Competition is also coming from Shanghai's CESCO copper week in late November, hosted by the
Shanghai Futures Exchange and the Chile-based Center for Copper and Mining Studies, which will
hold its third event this year.

"Some will need to be in London for physical terms discussions. Some just like the prestige and some
the shopping. But many will say, why go to the effort and expense if we can take more people to Hong
Kong and still see clients at CESCO?" said Goldwyn.

Organisers expect around 2,000 people to attend the invitation-only LME dinner, in line with last year.

"We know that there are numbers of people not coming to London because they're going instead to
LME Week Asia," said Robin Bhar, an analyst at Societe Generale in London. "It is of no great surprise
as Asia is now the centre of gravity of the metals world."

The LME said the London event continues to be successful, with the Asian event targetted at a more
Asia-focussed audience.

"While there is some overlap between LME Week and LME Week Asia, we believe that they
complement rather than compete with each other," said LME spokeswoman Miriam Heywood.

NO MONEY?

Just a few years ago, metals were the hottest pick for investors, who piled into hard assets and helped
to push copper prices to a record above $10,000 a tonne in February 2011.

Page58of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Now, copper has deflated to $6,600 with other metals mired near the cost of production. Brokers have
to cope with rising regulatory costs and a hike in fees from 2015 as HKEx looks to recoup its $2.2
billion purchase.

Banks such as Barclays and Deutsche Bank have deserted the asset class and margin pressure on
brokerages suggests there may be more casualties - at least from the West.

But where the banks have pulled back, other with funds and a lower regulatory burden, such as trade
houses, have expanded.

"In terms of talks.. it does feel like the LME is a bit more preliminary - setting out some feelers, and then
deals are struck later," said a source at a Singapore trading house in Singapore who declined to be
identified because of company policy.

"In a way they can both be big. We will just have to party more." (Reporting by Melanie Burton; Editing
by Richard Pullin)

Released: 2014-10-20T08:10:21.000Z
hkexch : Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd
imet : Mining/Quarrying | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | i831 : Financial Investments | i83106 :
Securities/Commodity Exchange Activities | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | china : China | london : London (UK) | uk : United Kingdom | apacz : Asia Pacific |
asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz : European
Union Countries | eland : England | eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe
Business
SERVICE:ABN
Thomson Reuters (Markets) LLC
Document LBA0000020141020eaak005oo

RF
CO
IN

NS
RE

IPD
IPC
PUB
AN

Page59of333©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.