Ex-BHP boss Kloppers cashes in on $5m Kew mansion

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
Ex-BHP boss Kloppers cashes in on $5m Kew mansion

Michael Bleby
376 words
1 April 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
5
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Former BHP Billiton chief executive Marius Kloppers has sold – for a price understood to be just
below $5 million – the four-bedroom Melbourne house he and his family moved into in the same month
the company launched its ill-fated bid for rival Rio Tinto.

Mr Kloppers and his family moved into the three-level house built for him by architect Nic Bochsler in
February 2008, within days of BHP announcing its $165 billion plan to take over its rival.

Mr Kloppers and his wife, Carin, had bought the 646-square-metre plot with an existing house in the
suburb of Kew's prestigious Sackville Ward, in February 2005, for $915,000.
The dwelling they then built on the site was sold through Kay & Burton agent Scott Patterson on
March 1 to buyer Cheng Hua. The purchaser's solicitor, Ching-Chih Liao, declined to answer any
questions about his client.
Mr Patterson confirmed on Monday that the four-bedroom house house had been sold, but declined
to comment further. Transfer will happen later in the year, and Mr Kloppers has bought an apartment
elsewhere in Melbourne, The Australian Financial Review understands.

For all the excitement about rising house prices in Melbourne, Mr Kloppers' investment shows that
BHP shares have proven a better investment than real estate.

The median price of house prices in Kew – where a new development opportunity is likely to come on
the market with the planned sale of VicRoads headquarters on nearby Denmark Street – have almost
doubled in nominal terms since the start of 2005, RP Data figures show, while BHP shares have
nearly tripled, with a 183 per cent increase. The dwelling, with large, light and spacious rooms, has a
chef's kitchen, four-car underground garage and lap pool.

He may be sad to leave Kew, but Mr Kloppers should feel some consolation. Much of his first year in
the suburb was consumed by the bitter fight for Rio, which BHP called off in November 2008, but his
money was better off in Kew – where prices have risen a nominal 21.8 per cent since 2008 – than Rio
shares, which have fallen by almost the same extent.

CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB

bkhlp : BHP Billiton Ltd | rtz : Rio Tinto PLC | craaus : Rio Tinto Ltd | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC
ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
e1121 : Home Sales/Housing Affordability | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic
Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | ereal : Real Estate Markets
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited

Page38of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AN

Document AFNR000020140331ea410005c

Page39of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.