Heard on the Street / Financial Analysis and Commentary

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Heard on the Street / Financial Analysis and Commentary

1,287 words
17 December 2014
The Wall Street Journal Asia
AWSJ
30
English
Copyright © 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Russia's Ruble Crisis Gives

A Red Alert for Investors

Too much, too late? Russia's central bank finally responded to the steep decline in the ruble late
Monday, raising rates to a sky-high 17% from 10.5%. But the ruble plummeted to new record lows
Tuesday. Confidence in Russia's ability to manage its economic plight is evaporating.

The ruble has now lost more than half its value so far this year against the dollar; in December alone it
has fallen more than 30%. The move accelerated dramatically after the central bank last week lifted
rates by one percentage point, a move that was seen as inadequate. That a 6.5-percentage-point
increase caused a rebound that lasted only a few hours, with the ruble falling to 75 against the dollar by
midday in London, is of deep concern. But without any sign of a bottom in oil prices -- Brent crude fell
below $60 a barrel Tuesday -- it is difficult to see the ruble stabilizing.

Risks to financial stability are increasing sharply as a result. Russia's companies and banks are locked
out of international markets due to sanctions imposed over the Ukraine crisis. Now they face
extraordinary interest rates domestically, raising the chance of a deep recession and rising defaults.
The economic outlook is awful given Russia's dependence on oil and there is no sign of detente with
the West over Ukraine. The central bank warned this week that with oil at $60 a barrel, the economy
could contract by 4.5% to 4.7% in 2015. The drought of Western investment in Russia threatens the
longer-term picture.

In response to a continued decline in the ruble, the central bank could increase rates further -- crushing
the outlook for growth -- or it could intervene in the market. But the danger in doing so is that it would
simply deplete its reserves without obtaining more than temporary relief.

More broadly, Russia's woes pose a bigger threat than this year's other bouts of emerging-market
turbulence. Russia carries a hefty weight in emerging-market bond indexes and it has important
economic links with Europe. Already, investors have reported so-called "portfolio contagion" -- selling
assets that are performing well because liquidity for securities that are falling in price is limited. That will
create opportunities, in time. But initially it threatens to spread the damage.

Russia is waving a big red flag for investors.

-- Richard Barley

Woodside Gas Deal Has Cost
While others are wary of dipping their toes into liquefied-natural-gas projects, top Australian energy
producer Woodside Petroleum is wading in. It is going to find the experience chilling.

Woodside is buying New York-listed Apache's stakes in two LNG facilities in Australia and Canada plus
some oil and gas fields for $3.7 billion, after reimbursing Apache for sunk costs. Woodside needs to
invest in projects with long lives to ensure that its oil and gas output, which was threatening to weaken
starting 2016, keeps up.

Page27of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Yet Woodside shares slumped Tuesday because investors don't like the timing and location on offer.
LNG prices are plunging along with oil, whose prices are typically linked. So are project returns.

LNG spot cargo prices delivered to Japan or South Korea next month have fallen 46% this year to $10
per million British thermal units, according to Platts. That is partly why midsize producers such as
Apache are shedding or shelving LNG ventures.

Woodside's new LNG assets bear some of the highest costs in the world. The first one, Wheatstone in
Australia where Woodside is acquiring a 13% stake from Apache, needs gas prices at $14 per million
BTU to generate sufficient returns, according to Goldman Sachs. It should start producing LNG by late
2016, but its owners still need to plow in half of the project's $29 billion budget, assuming costs stay
under control. Woodside says it will spend $1.8 billion over the next three years to develop the new
assets, most of it in Wheatstone.

The West Canadian Kitimat project, set to be operated by Chevron and in which Woodside owns 50%,
needs $13 gas to stay economical. Construction hasn't started, meaning its owners could still abandon
it. Malaysia's Petronas this month delayed an initial investment into a similar Canadian facility. It is also
risky for Woodside to operate the shale gas sources that feed Kitimat when it isn't experienced with
shale.

Woodside also postponed a decision to invest in the Browse offshore LNG project in Australia, which is
something of a consolation given how lower energy prices and new spending commitments could
threaten cash flows. Still, the company's target of paying out 80% of profits in dividends -- and the
current 6.7% dividend yield -- may turn out to be too generous.
Producers such as Woodside are no doubt hoping for oil to rebound next year. Even then, they will still
be competing with inexpensive U.S. shale. A cheap gas world calls for low-cost gas resources.
Woodside's new assets aren't it.

-- Abheek Bhattacharya
China Economy Looks for Jobs
A healthy labor market has kept Chinese leaders confident even as growth has slowed. But there are
signs jobs may not be as plentiful as before.

The country's official unemployment rate tells investors little, since it captures only a narrow slice of
workers and hardly ever moves. But other data points provide clues.

December's HSBC preliminary manufacturing purchasing managers index out Tuesday moved into
contraction category for the first time since May. The employment component of the index has been in
contraction for over a year.

A Manpower survey of 4,200 employers shows a new level of uncertainty about the future. While the
overall hiring expectations ticked up in the survey out this month, more than half the respondents didn't
know what their hiring plans would be early next year, a substantial jump from previous quarters.

Meanwhile, the ratio of job postings to job applicants, a figure released by the government, edged down
in the third quarter for the first time since early 2013. At 10.9 openings per 10 job seekers, China
continues to have more jobs than workers, but by less than before.

Probably the best estimate of the job situation remains a mostly secret 31-city survey conducted by the
government. It is only sporadically released to the public. At last measure in August the unemployment
rate was a healthy 5%, according to data provider CEIC.

The surprise interest-rate cut last month could indicate that this figure, which is closely tracked by policy
makers, has ticked up since then, and that China's leaders are becoming less confident about the jobs
picture.

Construction and real-estate jobs have been among the biggest winners in recent years, growing to
17.4% of the labor force by the end of 2013, compared with 16.3% five years earlier. That is a net
increase of 17 million jobs, according to a once-every-five-years economic census released Tuesday.

So it is especially worrying that property investment has been so weak. To keep those folks employed,
more stimulus likely will be necessary.
China also announced Tuesday it adopted revisions to its gross domestic product calculations to bring
them more in line with international standards. China's economy is now thought to be 3% larger last
year than previously figured.

Page28of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.While the optics of a bigger economy may be pleasing, that won't make China's leaders any more
confident about the future. Only healthy job growth can reassure Beijing.

-- Alex Frangos

License this article from Dow Jones Reprint Service

IN

NS

RE

IPC
PUB
AN

i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i81401 : Central Banking | i814 : Banking | ibnk :
Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
c1521 : Analysts' Comments/Recommendations | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | m11 : Equity Markets | mnatgs : Natural Gas Markets | ndj : Dow Jones Top
Stories | nedc : Commentaries/Opinions | neqac : Equities Asset Class News | nhrd : Heard on the
Street | nsum : News Digests | ntesi : Essential Stock Market Information | ntop : Top Wire News | c15 :
Performance | c152 : Earnings Projections | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | m14
: Commodity Markets | m143 : Energy Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter
| nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis
russ : Russia | austr : Australia | eurz : Europe | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | eeurz :
Central/Eastern Europe | namz : North America | ussrz : CIS Countries
ABO
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document AWSJ000020141216each0000z

Page29of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.