Prime Gold Coast site on block

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

PrimeSpace
Prime Gold Coast site on block

ROSANNE BARRETT, DEVELOPMENT
369 words
18 September 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
28
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

THE Queensland government is preparing to sell a prime 3.4 hectare site in the heart of the Gold
Coast’s freshly designated central business district, as investor confidence in the city’s development
market increases.
Demolition is under way at Southport’s former public hospital site, a triangular plot bordering
arterials Queen and Nerang streets.

The Newman government wants to transform it into a medium-density zone under the recently
legislated Southport Priority Development Area and has subdivided the site into three major sectors,
which could be sold as one lot.
It is understood Savills has been appointed to run expressions of interest for the major site, which is
set to be developed into a city hub including office, shops, restaurants and apartments.
Many of the 20 buildings on the former hospital site contain asbestos and are being torn down by
Rosenlund Contractors.
The Queensland government expects a sale to be finalised by the end of the year, with industry
saying it could bring up to $30 million.
Local councillor Dawn Crichlow said the site was well-serviced and perfect for commercial
development.
The old site was no longer required when the $1.7 billion Gold Coast University Hospital, near
Griffith University in the city’s west, was opened last year.
Meanwhile, an Australian group is understood to be undertaking due diligence for the sale of a
large development site on the corner of Bermuda Road and Nerang Broadbeach Road, Mermaid
Waters, which is owned by The Scheinberg Group.

The price tag has been speculated at up to $80m.
The 40ha site, 3km inland from coastal Broadbeach, has development approvals for residential
units, commercial and retail. It is being marketed by Colliers’ Darrell Irwin, who did not return calls
from The Australian.

Development sales on the Gold Coast are increasing amid an influx of international investment,
particularly from Singapore and China.
A controversial proposal to build a $7.5bn integrated casino resort on Wavebreak Island is being
closely watched.Last month, the Queensland government tightened restrictions for ASF
Consortium’s bid for a gaming licence, ruling out development on public land at The Spit and Doug
Jennings Park.

Page84of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS
RE
PUB
AN

gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140917ea9i00007

Page85of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.