Focus on profits, not pesos

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Portfolio
Focus on profits, not pesos

David Chaplin
1,782 words
5 February 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
19
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Experts are adamant that the meltdown in emerging markets is unlikely to have a lasting impact on
Australian shares. But as confession season kicks into high gear, companies that repeatedly miss
expectations may find themselves permanently sin binned.

The skittishness of investors the world over follows a strong close to 2013, especially in developed
world markets, but the buzz has come off just as quickly.

Broad measures of sharemarket health such as the United States S&P 500 and Australia's ASX 200
were down about 3 per cent in the first month of 2014 after recording total returns of more than 22 per
cent and 15 per cent respectively over the previous year.

But while Australia has been facing its own unique set of economic challenges related to the end of the
mining investment boom, the late January spike downwards was mostly attributed to a mini-crisis
erupting in several emerging market economies.

A run on a number of emerging market currencies was sparked by the well-signalled Federal Reserve
decision on January 29 to wind back its quantitative easing program by a further $US10 billion –
which, following a similar call last December, reduced the US central bank's total monthly bond
purchases down to $US65 billion ($74 billion).

Most notably, Turkey and South Africa, were forced to dramatically jack up interest rates to counter
plummeting currencies as other economies, including Brazil, Indonesia, India and Thailand were
flagged as possible capital flight risks.

In its latest Global Economic Prospects published this January, the World Bank highlights how a rapid
withdrawal of monetary stimulus could trigger an emerging market rout.

Despite rating an orderly return to more normal global monetary conditions as more likely, the World
Bank report does say "the risk of more abrupt adjustments remains significant, especially if increased
market volatility accompanies the actual unwinding of unprecedented central bank interventions".

Based on its modelling, the World Bank says if global bond yields increase by 1 to 2 per cent within a
couple of quarters as central banks tighten, this "could lead to a sharp reduction in capital inflows to
developing countries by between 50 and 80 per cent for several months".

"Some developing countries could face crisis risks should such scenario unfold," the World Bank report
says.

"Focusing on an assessment of prevalent factors in past banking crises, evidence suggests that
countries having seen a substantial expansion of domestic credit over the past five years, deteriorating
current account balances, high levels of foreign and short-term debt and over-valued exchange rates
could be more at risk in current circumstances."

Page188of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The latest emerging market currency run inevitably invited comparisons to the 1997 Asian Crisis,
which began in a similar fashion and spread quickly to the developed world.

As Sean Callow, Sydney-based senior currency strategist at Westpac Institutional Bank, told the Dow
Jones news wire service late in January, emerging market concerns "have not left us" with the sector
capable of causing "unexpected collateral damage in the rest of the world" if the uncertainty ramps
up.Idiosyncratic illnesses, not global pandemic

In spite of its viral potential, however, many commentators are picking the current emerging market flu
will more likely be contained in the most vulnerable economies (as defined by the World Bank report) –
remaining idiosyncratic illnesses rather than a global pandemic.
Mark Arnold, chief investment officer of boutique Australian funds management firm Hyperion Asset
Management, says in the short term some equity markets will suffer withdrawals as emergency level
global monetary stimulus is scaled back.

"This reduction in the level of extra liquidity created by the Federal Reserve and other key central
banks is likely to result in higher levels of interest rates and this should flow through into higher
discount rates and lower market prices," Arnold says.

"The sharemarkets that are likely to get hit the most are those located in emerging markets. These
markets tend to benefit the most from loose global monetary policy and they also tend to suffer the
most from tighter liquidity levels."

But not all emerging markets will feel the pain equally, according to Hasan Tevfik, Credit Suisse
Australiaequity strategist, with those countries most important to the Australian economy in
reasonable health.

"The bigger part of the emerging market economy is in Asia and most of those countries have current
account surpluses and managed or controlled foreign exchange regimes," Tevfik says. "Also [most
Asian economies] have relatively better investment conditions – for example, they have inflation under
control.

"I don't think the current emerging market volatility will spread to Australia."

But whether the Australian market will fall under the weight of the country's own idiosyncratic problems
is another question.

Alexander Batten, government bond analyst with UK-based fund manager Threadneedle Investment,
says as the China-driven mining boom recedes, "Australia will have to rebalance its economy to other
areas such as consumption or alternative sources of investment".

"The signs so far indicate that whilst the economy is rebalancing, this is not happening at a significant
enough pace to avert a slowdown," Batten says.

"However, this is not a new story and asset prices have corrected significantly already. For example,
the Australian dollar has fallen almost 18 per cent against the US dollar since the middle of last year
and approaching 25 per cent against the NZ dollar since 2011. In the bond market, the record low RBA
rate has led to a near all-time steepness in the yield curve.

"Given these extreme moves in valuation, we think the question is not whether Australia is headed for
a correction but more whether it has corrected too much."Market correction unlikely: Boubouras
George Boubouras, Equity Trustees (EQT) chief investment officer, puts the probability of an
Australian sharemarket correction, which he defines as a drop of 10 per cent in a short space of time,
as quite low in the year ahead.

Boubouras says while the Australian economy is "more uneven", a broad decline in equities would
surprise.

"When the reporting season begins this February it will highlight the uneven nature of the economy,"
he says, but there will still be opportunities in Australian shares – albeit requiring greater discrimination
by investors.

"You'll have to invest on a case-by-case basis," Boubouras says, "the Australian market will suit
bottom-up investors."

Page189of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.For example, he says EQT has gone "overweight" Australian companies that are sensitive to the US
dollar, betting on stocks such as Amcor, Brambles and Macquarie Bank, which will benefit from the
falling Aussie.
Despite the much-publicised slowdown in the mining sector, Boubouras says the shares of some
companies, particularly large players like BHP and Rio, will retain value.

"Big firms like BHP and Rio will have increased volumes while bringing down their costs of production,
which [while good for their profits] is bad for mining services stocks," he says.

Overall, Boubouras says EQT has a "strong conviction there's more upside than downside" in the
sharemarket, with "the event risk smaller than previously".

In a global sense, EQT favours developed-world equities – especially the US and Europe – over
emerging markets, a position Riccardo Briganti, head of research for Macquarie Private Wealth, also
takes.

"We're confident about growth in developed markets, and in the US market in particular – and
Australian companies that are leveraged to that growth," Briganti says.

Like Boubouras, however, he says the ASX will become even more of a stock pickers' market, even
within sectors exposed to global growth.

"Stocks will need to deliver earnings growth this year, and not just the promise of growth to come,
which was easier to get away with last year," Briganti says.

"Some companies will struggle to deliver whatever sector they're in. For example, The Reject Shop
has issued a profit downgrade warning while JB Hi-Fi looks like it's going to deliver returns as
expected."Climb in 2013 represented a normalisation

He says while Australian stock valuations, as measured by price-earnings (P/E) ratios, climbed in
2013, that represented normalisation rather than irrational exuberance.

"[Rising share valuations] reflect the initial phase of recovery," Briganti says. "But we need confidence
on the earnings side to maintain equity valuations at current levels."

Hyperion's Arnold says over the long term the Australian sharemarket should return a nominal 9 to
10 per cent per year on average.

"This return comprises 5 per cent EPS [earnings per share] and DPS [dividends per share] growth and
4 to 5 per cent dividend return," Arnold says. "P/Es don't significantly impact long-term returns unless
they are at extreme levels at either the beginning or end of the investment period. However, over
short-term periods such as a year, changes in P/Es tend to be the dominant driver of returns. We
believe the current level of P/Es for the [Australian] market are sustainable in a low-inflation
environment."

Credit Suisse is also relatively sanguine about the rising P/E of the Australian sharemarket, according
to Tevfik.

"Equities are not cheap, but they're not expensive either," he says.

"Australian P/Es are now about 16-times – that's only about 10 per cent above the long-term average."

In fact, Tevfik says the Australian shares always look expensive compared to most global markets as
measured by P/E or price-book (P/B) ratios.

"Right now Australian shares are the most expensive based on P/Es – and our call is that they will
become more expensive – but they're also the cheapest compared to dividend yields," he says.

And Tevfik says over the year ahead more investors are likely to move into high-dividend shares out of
low-yielding cash, keeping demand for Australian equities high. Furthermore, he says
dividend-seeking self-managed super fund (SMSF) investors are also sustaining Australian share
prices.

In a Credit Suisse analyst report published in January, titled Rise of the Selfies, Tevfik wrote SMSFs
"own $220 billion, or 16 per cent, of the Australian equity market".

Page190of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."We estimate selfies are currently committing an additional $2 billion net per quarter to the asset
class. Strong inflows will continue for a number of years," the report says, implying SMSF investors will
support Australian share prices at elevated levels for some time to come.
Kieran Kelly, managing director of Sydney-based boutique advice and investment firm Sirius Fund
Management, agrees with Tevfik that SMSF investors have an inordinate influence on Australian stock
prices now.

However, Kelly, whose clients include SMSF investors, says the sector as a whole "can't invest
counter-intuitively" and can't be relied upon to prop up the market.

RE
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140204ea250003v

Page191of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.