Shell accelerating move into China , reducing Australian operations

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Shell accelerating move into China, reducing Australian operations

329 words
2 July 2014
Nikkei Report
NKRP
English
© Copyright 2014. Nihon Keizai Shimbun, Inc. All rights reserved.

TAKAYUKI KATO, Nikkei staff writer
FRANKFURT -- Anglo-Dutch oil companyRoyal Dutch Shell is re-evaluating its strategy in the
Asia-Pacific region, accelerating its shift to China while scaling back operations in Australia.

On June 17, Shell announced a strategic partnership with China National Offshore Oil (CNOOC), one
of China's three major state-owned oil producers. The two are working together on development of an
offshore oil field near China's Hainan Island and on a petrochemical joint venture. They are also
teaming up on development projects requiring technological might, such as large deep-sea oil fields
and liquefied natural gas (LNG).
The aim of the partnership is to deepen ties in oil and natural gas exploration and development outside
China. Amid a restructuring that includes the sale of $15 billion in assets during the two years ending
2015, Shell has limited capital. In contrast, CNOOC is taking the lead among China's three major oil
producers in oceanic development, and the Chinese government is likely to cooperate on the financial
front.
Grappling with serious air pollution, China is interested in converting electricity generation from coal to
natural gas. This presents an opportunity to Shell, the world's largest LNG supplier. Although the two
companies have previously been competitors in acquiring some drilling areas, their interests are
aligned in LNG supply.

The flip side of this is the narrowing of Shell's Australian LNG business. The same day the CNOOC
deal was signed, Shell decided it would sell most of its shares in Australian producer Woodside
Petroleum. The sale, representing 19% of Woodside's shares, yields $5 billion dollars for Shell on an
after-tax basis.
Within the year, Shell will withdraw from downstream operations in Australia by selling its refinery and
filling station operations there to Swiss oil trading house Vitol. It will concentrate capital in the LNG
business, for which demand in Asia is expected to grow.

CO
IN

RE

IPC
PUB
AN

chno : China National Offshore Oil Corporation | rnlp : Royal Dutch Shell PLC
i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1 : Energy | i1300002 : Oil Exploration | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum
Extraction | iexplo : Natural Gas/Oil Exploration | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
EG001000
Nikkei Digital Media Inc.
Document NKRP000020140702ea720002z

Page53of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.