Analysis: LNG undergoes ‘landscape change’ amid US shale boom

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Analysis: LNG undergoes ‘landscape change’ amid US shale boom

551 words
25 July 2014
Trade Finance
TRAFIN
English
Copyright 2014 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC

Australia’s LNG pipeline has all but dried up, sources say.

Australia’s liquefied natural gas (LNG) pipeline has declined due to increased costs and cheaper
alternatives brought about by the US’ shale gas revolution, sources in the oil and gas sector told Trade
Finance.

“The pull is heading to the US as their shale gas is slightly cheaper and they have a larger workforce that
works at decreased labour costs,” a source said. “The US also has large reserves of the gas and is able
to easily access trade licenses with the oil majors.”
In the US there is a different and more flexible agreement for the financing of oil and gas commodities,
the source added. LNG traders can purchase spot orders of the commodity and negotiate various
offtake agreements with the majors and the operators of the oil and gas fields.

“You need to remember that the cost of shale gas against pricing benchmarks is also much less when
compared to Australia’s LNG pipeline,” he said. “In Australia, in the near-term at least, the pipeline is
generally expansion projects and a backfilling of existing infrastructure and offshore stuff.”
In Australia’s North West Shelf there is Hess – an American oil and gas company – that is talking to
proponents to monetise the existing gas there as “it needs a home,” the source said. “You have got the
Shell coalstream gas joint venture that is looking at options for projects in Queensland and on top of that
you have contracts for the construction of associated infrastructure attached to the LNG deals – but that’s
about as good as it gets in the short-to-medium term”.

In northern Australia two projects are currently in the pipeline – the Browse and Bonaparte LNG deals.
GDF Suez and Santos, the latter’s sponsors, scrapped the deal citing poor returns and are seeking more
cost-effective alternatives. Browse meanwhile, is likely to be a floating LNG deal and while there is
potential, the source said it is “still a fair way off procurement”.

“LNG buyers always look for diversity in their gas reserves, and the decline in Australia’s LNG pipeline
comes as no real surprise. The LNG boom first started in Qatar, then moved to Australia and now that
well has run dry, buyers are looking to the US as it is more cost-effective and environmentally friendly,”
another source in the project finance space said. “LNG deals are continually flush with liquidity and there
are still opportunities in south-east Asia. Whether it is upstream lending in Indonesia to smaller
companies or financial advisory roles in Vietnam-based downstream petrochemical deals, there is a
pipeline to be pursued.”

For now, however, capital is heading to the US and orders for LNG vessels continue. ANZ and the
Export-Import Bank of China (China Ex-Im) recently announced a $787 million deal for four new LNG
carriers. China National Offshore Oil Corporation has mandated the pair to arrange the facility, while the
vessels will be built by Hudong-Zhonghua Shipbuilding. A spokesperson from China Ex-Im said the bank
has cumulatively provided financial support for 16 LNG carrier orders worth approximately $1.7 billion,
all built in Chinese yards.

Aaron.Weinman@euromoneyplc.com

IN

i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | i1300006 : Pipeline Transportation | i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude
Oil/Natural Gas | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction

Page260of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

RE

mlpg : Liquid Petroleum Gas Markets | m14 : Commodity Markets | m143 : Energy Markets | mcat :
Commodity/Financial Market News | mcrntg : Crude Oil/Natural Gas Product Markets | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter
austr : Australia | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | namz : North
America
Commodity Finance

IPD
PUB Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC
AN

Document TRAFIN0020140811ea7p0000s

Page261of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.