Australia,China : GINA RINEHART to invest A$500 million in an AUSTRALIAN dairy project

Australia, China : GINA RINEHART to invest A$500 million in an AUSTRALIAN dairy project

HD
WC 334 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY

19 November 2014
Kuwait Times
MEWKUT
English
The Financial Times Limited. Asia Africa Intelligence Wire. All material subject to copyright. Kuwait Times
© 2014 All rights reserved.

LP

TD

Mining magnate, Gina Rinehart signed a deal to invest A $500 million in an Australian dairy project to
tap into the multi-billion dollar Chinese infant formula market.

Recently, Rinehart entered into a joint venture to export beef to Asia, so it is hoped that the
majority-owned Hope Dairies would produce pharmaceutical-grade infant formula and UHT, or longlife
milk, at a processing plant in Queensland.

The agreement reached between Rinehart s mining firmHancock Prospecting and the Queensland state
government.

Rinehart said Australia has some of the finest agricultural products in the world and we need to position
ourselves to meet the demands of our region.
Chinese engineering firm CAMC and Hope Dairies Hong Kong-based directors Dave Garcia and Dano
Chan have minority stakes in the company.
The firm is buying 5,000 hectares of dairy and arable land in south-east Queensland over the past year,
and plans to process 150 million litres annually.
Hope Dairies would buy additional milk from nearby local producers to add to its supply, with exports
expected to start in late 2016.
Industry group Queensland Dairyfarmers Organisation welcomed the announcement, saying that China
presents a real opportunity for the industry to form close partnerships to supply high quality dairy
products.
Hancock Prospecting paid A $40 million for a 50% stake in 2 cattle stations in Western Australia.

Asia s growing middle classes has seen agricultural exporters such as Australia position themselves as
the region s food bowl.
Australian iron ore mogul, Andrew Forrest partnered with 3 of Asia s leading agribusinesses to set up a
100-year partnership ASA 100 that will meet annually.
ASA 100 comprises dozens of members from China and Australia and includes food producers,
distributors and politicians.
China is Australia s largest trading partner and has helped drive the country s economic growth through
its demand for commodities such as iron ore and coal.All rights reserved.

CO
IN
RE

hkpros : Hancock Prospecting Pty. Ltd.
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
austr : Australia | china : China | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

IPD (Agriculture
PUB Al Bawaba (Middle East) Ltd. (Middle East aggregated content)

Page245of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.AN

Document MEWKUT0020141120eabj00004

Page246of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.