Financial close reached on A$8.3bn Australian PPP

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Financial close reached on A$8.3bn Australian PPP

294 words
18 September 2014
Infrastructure Investor
INVEST
English
Copyright 2014. PEI Media Ltd. All rights reserved.

"Palisade, Partners Group and Marubeni are part of the consortium chosen to build, finance and operate
Sydney’s North West Rail Link.

Members of the Northwest Rapid Transit (NRT) consortium have reached financial close on North West
Rail Link, billed by investors as the largest public transport project currently under construction in
Australia.

The winning alliance includes Sydney-based Palisade Investment Partners, Switzerland’s Partners
Group and Japanese trading house Marubeni Corporation as equity providers alongside lead
contractors Hong Kong’s MTR Corporation, Australia’s Leighton Contractors, John Holland and Plenary
Group.

No deal size has been disclosed, but sources with knowledge of the transaction confirmed that the total
cost of the project was estimated at $A8.3 billion, with the operations, train and systems package, the
only main contract to be awarded as a public-private partnership (PPP), worth about $A3.7 billion.

The contract involves the design, construction and financing of a 36-kilometre rapid transit service
connecting Chatswood on Sydney’s North Shore to Sydney’s north-western suburbs. It includes building
15 kilometres of twin tunnels, eight new railway stations and 4,000 commuter car-parking spaces;
supplying the new generation rapid transit single deck trains; installing tracks, signalling, mechanical and
electrical systems; and upgrading an existing railway line.
Upon commencement of its operations, which is expected for 2019, North West Rail Link will be the first
fully-automated rapid transit service in Australia. Under the terms of the availability-based PPP, the
operating concession is 15 years.

The NRT consortium was announced preferred bidder last June. Financing will be provided by ANZ,
NAB and Westpac of Australia as well as international lenders Standard Chartered, BTMU, ING, HSBC,
Mizuho and OCBC.

CO

IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

leiho : Leighton Holdings Ltd | mrubni : Marubeni Corp | mtrc : MTR Corporation Ltd | hocht : Hochtief
AG | ocisa : ACS Actividades de Construcciones y Servicios SA
i502 : Heavy Construction | i721 : Urban/Commuter Transit | i72101 : Urban Mass Transit Systems |
i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | iconst : Construction | icre :
Real Estate/Construction | irailtr : Road/Rail Transport | itsp : Transportation/Shipping
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New
South Wales
PEI Media Ltd
Document INVEST0020140918ea9i0002u

Page21of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.