China may increase Aquila bid

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
China may increase Aquila bid

Sarah-Jane Tasker, Takeovers
685 words
12 June 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
19
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

CHINA may be forced to increase it $1.4 billion bid for Aquila Resources if it wants control of the iron
ore and coal company after a new player emerged with a significant stake in the target at a 10 per
cent premium to the offer price.
China’s Baosteel, in a joint venture with Brisbane-based freight operator Aurizon, launched a hostile
$3.40-a-share bid last month but Aquila’s share price has comfortably sat above that figure.

Market speculation of a higher bid escalated yesterday after Perth-based mining contractor Mineral
Resources purchased 49 million Aquila shares at $3.75 a share. That saw Aquila’s shares rise 3.4
per cent to close at $3.61.
Mineral Resources, which also operates small iron ore mines, did not confirm yesterday it had
purchased a 12 per cent stake in Aquila but it placed its shares in a trading halt, pending an
announcement this morning. The Australian understands the company had not contacted Baosteel or
Aurizon prior to its share raid.
The strong interest in Aquila, which is developing the $7.4bn West Pilbara iron ore project in Western
Australia and the Eagle Downs coking coal project in Queensland, comes at a time of falling iron ore
prices.

Given market conditions for bulk commodities, the move by Mineral Resources surprised the market.
Morningstar senior equity analyst Gareth James said the move was not great for Mineral Resources
investors, as it was taking a big gamble on an improved offer from China.

“If that is their strategy, that is a high-risk strategy, as their core business is not speculating on
stocks,” Mr James said.

“If that’s not their strategy, then they want to be part of the transaction — but it looks strange, and it’s
no surprise its share price started falling.” Aquila is yet to formally respond to the offer, with its target
statement expected next week, but it gave its strongest indication yet that it was likely to reject the bid
as too low.
“Aquila’s independent board subcommittee welcomes this recognition that the value of the company’s
shares is well in excess of the current $3.40-cash-per-share conditional off-market takeover offer by
Baosteel and Aurizon,” Aquila said in reference to the $3.75-a-share paid by Mineral Resources.

The Baosteel camp was not commenting yesterday as the bidders await the release of the target
statement next week, but there were unconfirmed reports that the advisers to the Chinese, Satori and
Deutsche, had met with M&G Investment Management — an institutional investor that sold its shares
to Mineral Resources — in London earlier this week.

Mineral Resources’ boss Chris Ellison, one of Western Australia’s wealthiest people, keeps a low
profile and his plans for his new 12 per cent stake in Aquila are unknown. It is also not clear if he has

Page193of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.a close relationship with fellow wealthy West Australian Tony Poli, the managing director of Aquila,
who controls 30 per cent of the stock.
Shares in Mineral Resources fell 2.21 per cent to $10.14 yesterday before the company requested a
trading halt.

Morningstar’s Mr James added that if Mineral Resources was not Continued on Page 20 Continued
from Page 19 looking for an increased bid, it could want to get involved in the development of Aquila’s
iron ore project.
“Are they really going to get involved in a multi-billion-dollar iron ore project that has been struggling
to get off the ground for many years?” he said.

“We are not overly impressed by the potential of this project, so for the people who are supposedly
seeking to be part of the project, it is not encouraging for us.”Mr James added that the emergence of a
rival bid was not expected given that Baosteel has a 20 per cent stake in Aquila — and given the
additional fact that the iron ore project needed substantial funding in an environment where the iron
ore price was falling rapidly.

aqures : Aquila Resources Ltd. | dorval : Aurizon Mines Ltd | hclamn : Hecla Mining Co
i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys |
ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | igoldm : Gold Ore Mining
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140611ea6c0000g

CO
IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

Page194of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.