Too early twice, Luke Grana content to be 'next Uniqlo' with his latest venture

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
LA
CY
LP

TD

Entrepreneurs
Too early twice, Luke Grana content to be 'next Uniqlo' with his latest venture

Michael Bailey
688 words
14 November 2014
BRW
BRW
First
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

He built a network of charging stations when there were hardly any electric cars on the road, then a
video coaching platform before the NBN could arrive to make it work properly - so Luke Grana is sticking
to a proven idea, online fast fashion, for his latest start-up Grana.com.

Grana did manage to salvage $150,000 after selling Chargepoint to Leighton in early 2012 and closing
the Pollenizer-incubated Coachy later that year. Having already established and then sold three cafes
prior to that, there was no question the Manly-raised marketing graduate would start another business
but the "key outcome" from his two setbacks was to invest in a proven area.

"I started thinking about fashion retail, a $1.7 trillion a year business globally, where only 5 per cent is
online today but it's forecast to be 30 per cent by 2030," he says.

Grana's research technique was unusual, working for French Connection and Zara for three months
apiece in their Sydney stores.

"I was handing people stuff in the changerooms, just learning about fabrics and what was selling," he
says.

The experience taught him that "timeless basics made from quality fabrics" were more consistently
profitable than "fashion-driven" items.

"I'd rather be the next Uniqlo than the next H&M or Zara," he says.

His Zara experience did, however, bring home that good logistics were as important as design.

Grana worked out for himself that Australia Post charged too much for his business to ever be based
here, so in October 2013, he took his savings and moved to Hong Kong, a shipping hub for DHL.
"DHL have five planes a day out of Hong Kong to Australia, 11 a day to the US and 15 a day to Europe,
so we've been able to negotiate great rates," he says.
"They charge $10 for a 1 kilogram box from Hong Kong to Australia for next-day delivery, the same as
Australia Post, but then they can do the same to the US, or 20 Hong Kong dollars for same-day delivery
within the island."

Peruvian pima cotton T-shirts cost Grana.com $7, and $13 for you. Grana sourced pima cotton T-shirts
from a factory in Peru and in March this year had 2000 delivered to the "shoebox" warehouse he was still
renting at the time. He set up a beta ecommerce site and sold them all within two weeks, shipping to
eight countries including Australia.

This helped convince more than 20 angel investors to join a $1 million seed round for Grana.com,
anchored by Bluebell Group, which has been retailing the likes of Jimmy Choo and Dior into Asia for 60
years. Another of those angels, banker Pieter Wittgen, has since joined the business as a co-founder
and financial/analytical lead.

Page179of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The money has allowed Grana.com to shift to a 325 square metre warehouse and hire six people in the
past two months, including heads of design, marketing and customer service.
The site is already selling jeans from Japanese denim and silk shirts from Huzhou (both manufactured in
China) and will next year add French poplin blouses, American twill chinos and an Irish linen range.

Grana.com runs a 50 per cent profit margin, typical for fashion retailers, however the lack of a wholesaler
still makes it disruptively cheap for consumers, Grana claims.

"For instance, a silk shirt that customers would normally expect to pay upwards of $200 we offer for $49."

Another innovation is that Grana.com has built a system which tells customers how much more they can
buy before their shipping cost goes up. Grana admits this benefits his business by encouraging
consumers to fill their carts to that level.

Grana.com aims to be shipping to 20 countries within six months, around the same time Grana intends
to seek another financing round. He's investing in pop-up stores in Hing Kong and Australia before
Christmas to try and strengthen brand recognition.

CO
IN
NS
RE

fstrt : Fast Retailing Co Ltd
i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i645 : Clothing Stores | i654 : Specialty Stores | iretail : Retail
gfas : Fashion | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle
hkong : Hong Kong | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric
: BRICS Countries | china : China | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries |
dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

PUB Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
AN

Document BRW0000020141114eabe00007

Page180of262©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.