Tough prising bids - let alone sales - amid overloaded old and nouveau Portsea Australia Day ...

HD Tough prising bids - let alone sales - amid overloaded old and nouveau Portsea Australia Day ...
WC 2,295 words
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

31 January 2014
Property Observer
PMPROP
English
Copyright 2014 Private Media Partners Pty Ltd

Portsea's highest sale last year was when John Halstead, the Singapore based former partner of Simone
Semmens, sold Noorah at 3688 Point Nepean Road Portsea to company director Neville Bertalli for $8.3
million.

There was not even 1% annual price growth for Noorah (pictured below) over the decade
having previously traded at $7.51 million on Australia Day 2003 when Semmens bought it from the old
Portsea family, the Dickinsons, who'd often entertain guests through the decades including Nettlefold and
Lempriere family members.

TD

{yoogallery src=[images/stories/2014/01/31/port5]}

Oldtimers remember Jack Baillieu lived there before he moved to Colwyn, one of Portsea's premier
properties now owned by developer, Becton's Max Beck. Colwyn was built in 1909 for Henry Bellingham
Howard Smith.

The Age once rashly reported the nouveau riche arrived at Portsea with developer David Deague, son of a
bricklayer and the first to pay more than $1 million when he bought Colwyn in 1980. For a Sydney
comparison, it was 1981 when the late Kerry Packer bought his Palm Beach oceanfront, breaking the
suburb's million-dollar threshold with his $1 million purchase from the MacCormick family.
Not far behind, and last year's runner up, was Brighton socialite Coral Knowles' $8 million purchase of
the old Ballantyne Chocolates house. The whisper is that the vendor, motorcycle enthusiast Steven
Chiodo threw in some vendor finance to sweeten the deal. They say it was $1 million interest free for a
year which would reduce its price by around $100,000.

It's 33 years since James Reyne's lyrics, but it's still the Mount Buller ski lodge in winter and the Portsea
backbeach in summer for many among monied Melbourne. Through the years, both (but Buller more so
than Portsea), have been Title Tattle's infrequent playground too.

The Australia Day weekend offered the chance of a trip back to witness an overloaded dozen or more
property auctions. Such was the volume of offerings over Saturday and Sunday, even Title Tattle found it
impossible to be at the comepting auctions held at the same time. It seems prices too have turned the
clock back, up to a decade in one case. Ilze Moran of RT Edgar says 2014 prices were consistent with
2013 sales.

Barramunga, the classic two storied home set well back off Point Nepean Road at Sorrento with upstairs
views of Camerons Bight, kicked off the weekend auctions with Liz Jensen, who has spearheaded Kay &
Burton’s Portsea office since its 1994 launch.

The auction of the six bedroom cottage on its 3,474 square metre holding (pictured below) opened and
closed on its $1.9 million vendor bid by the auctioneer Gerald Delany, who'd told the crowd that the site
had been the choicest of selections in the 1920s by the stockbroker John Hindsen. The contract revealed
it was being offered after three plus decades of ownership by Toorak dentist Geoffrey Wymond and his
wife Diane, who Title Tattle recalls cut their wedding cake at the Menzies Hotel in 1960.

{yoogallery src=[images/stories/2014/01/31/sor]}

It is the former publishing boss Robert Ungar who is selling the only clifftop mansion listing in Portsea this
season. Perched above Fisherman's Beach, it comes with expectations of more than $10 million by
Ungar who founded Hinkler Books with his son Stephen.

Page201of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Ungar bought Mandurah, the then five-year-old Wayne Gillespie-designed house at 3820 Point Nepean
Road (pictured below), about two decades ago with his wife Rosemary who are looking to downsize to a
property they plan on building in Blairgowrie. Ilze Moran, of RT Edgar, opened the envelopes with the
expressions of interest campaign mid-week, with no word yet to emerge on any sale.

{yoogallery src=[images/stories/2014/01/31/port]}
The former CEO of the International Cricket Council, Malcolm Speed and wife, Alison paid $1.2 million in
2008 for their Portsea offering that first came up for sale last October through Jellis Craig Bennison
Mackinnon agent Emil Fowler.

The four bedroom, three bathroom Shelly Court house (pictured below) is set on a 1,369 square metre cul
de sac block. Speed , who was inducted into the Sport Australia Hall of Fame in 2012, has an office with
plenty of sports memorabilia. There was no bid at the weekend auction with offers being sought
apparently of around $1.8 million.

{yoogallery src=[images/stories/2014/01/31/port2]}

Cruffel, high on Hemston Avenue was put to auction, but passed in at its RT Edgar auction on a $3.25
million vendor bid. It was listed by Neville Bertalli, the chief of the Patterson Cheney Automotive family
owned car retailing firm, and his wife, Di. The couple bought it in 2001 from the former amateur golf
champion, turned US-based Cobra golf-clubs boss Tom Crow for $2.25 million, having had previous
Portsea property, as The Grange was their's until its $2.23 million sale in 2001 to Joseph Marne.
David Horgan's offering on Tranquility Court, Portsea was passed in on a $3.45 million offer. But its
subsequent sale was the highest price paid over the weekend.

The modern five-bedroom house opposite the 10th fairway on the Sorrento Golf Course was acquired
post-auction by a Melbourne buyer for a tad over $3.5 million through Ilze Moran of RT Edgar
Portsea. The house on 2,392 square metres last traded in 2006 for $2.95 million.

The RT Edgar auctioneer Warwick Anderson noted the subsequently extended home's original builder
was present at the onsite auction. What he didn't say was that Dean Andary had sold it for $3.4 million in
2003 through Gerald Delany, indicating poor price direction over the past decade. The grounds came with
heated pool and north/south tennis court. There were television cameras at the onsite auction. Apparently
ABC News, and sadly not for the upcoming Housewifes of Melbourne series on Foxtel, although Andrea
Moss, wife of the plastic surgeon, Christopher does have a weekender at Portsea. The Moss home looks
deceptively ordinary on its laneway location, but apparently is terrific once inside.

Within the gated compound off Franklin Road, the Nairana offering was passed in no bid by Kay & Burton.
Lots of yapping from the neighbouring collie. It was designed by Wayne Gillespie on the cul-de-sac among
moonah trees and manicured lawns. The single storey house will be bought by old money who will live
their most of the year. The offering and location reminded Title Tattle of the data from the most recent
census which found  81% of those at home in Portsea on census night were aged 55 or over. Portsea had
an overall vacancy rate of 88% on census night. There was a RT Edgar post-auction sale of a
five-bedroom house on Franklin Road for $2.5 million with the buyer off to acreage.

 There was a time when big sales occured on the big day be it Australia Day or the Easter weekend.
Indeed Title Tattle recalls attending the 1995 auction of the $5.15 million Matear family's 10,660 square
metre clifftop mansion, Ilyuka to developer David Deague. 

The 1927 Moorish-style mansion - something like Elizabeth Bay's Boomerang though then without
heritage listing - edged out the prior summer's $4.5 million top sale when Rupert Murdoch's sister Janet
Calvert-Jones and her husband, John, bought Harrodene, the classic 1920s clifftop house. 

Ilukya sits on Port King Road, which takes its name from Governor King, who granted the locality's
lime-burning licence in 1839. Deague almost bulldozed it, but for the vigilance of near neighbour Kate
Baillieu. Built for oil executive Harry Conforth, it last sold for the record Victorian price of $26 million in
2010 when Computershare director Michele O'Halloran sold to businessman John Higgins.

Title Tattle also recalls the 2008 Easter auction of The Anchorage, built with limestone on the Sorrento
hillside in 1873 for pioneer thespian and entrepreneur George Coppin, when it fetched $8.06 million.
Coppin was a seaside spruiker who shipped wealthy Melburnians to the Mornington Peninsula on his
paddle steamers, and then put them on his tramway to stay at his Hotel Continental. It has been on the
toss of a coin - a choice between Australia and America - that Coppin sailed from Sussex on the Templar,
arriving in Sydney in 1843 with his partner, Maria Watkins Burroughs, where he was to perform at the
Royal Victoria Theatre on Pitt Street. Coppin briefly owned the Clown Hotel, directly opposite the theatre,
which failed as Sydney's first permanent musical entertainment venue, before he moved

Page202of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.south. The Anchorage, a classic Italianate residence, was held by the Coppin family until 1959, 53 years
after George's death. 

The leading local agent Gerald Delany, chairman of Kay & Burton, is already rethinking the Australia Day
auction weekend tradition that dates back several decades. Gerald Delany told Title Tattle the now
overloaded auction schedule would be best spread well into February.
For many summers estate agent Jonno Edgar held his traditional Australia Day weekend Battlers Cup
tennis comp. No where to be seen amid the auction attendees this year, though Title Tattle gathers he's
soon to have his 70th birthday. Edgar's former clifftop house, Corsair, had been willed to him by his
parents, who had bought one of the eight subdivided Weroona building blocks in 1961 for 4,000 from
carnation grower Winton Gillespie and his wife, Marjorie, nee Matear. Harold and Zara Holt were also
neighbours.

Indeed Edgar had fished for crayfish with Holt the weekend before that fateful 1967 day on Cheviot Beach.
That morning, Jonno, then a 23-year-old estate agent, had made a 4pm spearfishing appointment with the
Prime Minister who drowned. Title Tattle recalls the safe at Holt's house had a combination incorporating
January 26, 1788, but despite the conspiracy theories there was nothing in there when it was opened. The
Holt's sold on Weeroona Avenue in 1991 with the stockbroker Simon Fraser paying $1 million.

Lucient, the Blair Court house designed by architect, Peter Carmichael of Cocks Carmichael, was passed
in on a $3.5 million vendor bid. Comprising, four bedrooms, three bathrooms, study, gym, cellar, and four
car garage, it was a very modern home with CBus, Sonos music system and zoned ducted heating and
cooling. And the 1960s peace sign built into the ceiling above the bed in the master bedroom. The
grounds has a suspended glass mosaic tiled pool and spa with infinite edge, self cleaning system and
waterfall. The home was built in 2008. Title Tattle recalls Richard and Alison Bouris, the former owners of
JB Hi-FI, owned it briefly a decade or so ago.

Dreamweaver, the Portsea back beach holiday home of management consultant Chris Livitsanis was
passed in at weekend auction on a $3.5 million vendor bid. Its been on and off the market over the past
two years with an asking price of $3.5 million. The two-storey house at 14 Cheviot Road (pictured below)
is a sleek, contemporary design that has living areas on the ground floor and bedrooms upstairs. The
grounds comes with gas and solar-heated lap pool and spa plus championship Modgrass tennis court.
Much of the Cheviot Road was part of the old Brockhoff estate where the Mantello family undertook the
subdivision.

{yoogallery src=[images/stories/2014/01/31/port3]}

Liz Jensen, of Kay & Burton, had the listing which auctioneer Gerald Delany suggested couldn't be put
back for its $3.5 million vendor bid. Livitsanis was back on his pushbike Sunday morning, regardless of
the result. He'd previously had a home close by on Back Beach Road.

Even the cheapies didn't necessarily sell. The Portsea village's old fishermans cottage - and cheapest
price buying opportunity if you don't count bathing boxes - failed to attract any bidders. On Back Beach
Road, there was a $750,000 vendor bid when the Sterling fishing family's former home (pictured below)
went to auction through Lloyd Robinson of RT Edgar. 
The Gaynor family had paid $600,000 for the 724 square metre property with three bedroom cottage in
2007, and they want $850,000 plus. Title Tattle noted the sales contract have its official bi-annual 2012
land value as $873,000 and its capital improved value given as $885,000. It's a popular rental on the
recently soldStayz website which would assist with the $2300 annual land tax.

Strong bidding was evident however at 3037 Point Nepean Road, Sorrento located opposite Camerons
Bight beach which was a knockdown brick veneer on its elevated private 943 square metre block, with
potential two storey replacement for views towards Blairgowrie Yacht Squadron. It didn't really deserve a
name, but let's still call it Willunga. After a dozen section 32s had been issued by Fletchers agent John
Callaghan, bidding opened at $800,000, it was called on the market at $852,500, and finally knocked
down at $981,000.

Remarkably another of the weekend's most sought-after offerings was the house diagonally opposite the
Portsea Pub at 3737 Point Nepean Road. There were five bidders, the underbidders a Chinese couple
who'd been staying at the pub, with it called on the market at $1.44 million and sold at $1.585 million
through RT Edgar. Apparently the buyer's daughters were very keen on mum and dad's purchase.

{yoogallery src=[images/stories/2014/01/31/port4]}

news@propertyobserver.com.au

Page203of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS
RE

greest : Real Estate/Property | gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | sydney : Sydney | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South Wales

PUB Private Media Partners Pty Ltd.
AN Document PMPROP0020140131ea1v0000i

Page204of307©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.