INDUSTRY SNAPSHOTS; OCEANIA - AUSTRALIA - METAL AND MINING

HD

WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

INDUSTRY SNAPSHOTS; OCEANIA - AUSTRALIA -
METAL AND MINING
15,323 words
12 June 2014
Industry Snapshot
ACQIND
English
Copyright 2014. Acquisdata Pty Ltd.

LATEST COMPANY NEWS

News and Commentary

Sims exec leaving; confirms Kelman move – 6/6/2014

Sims Metal Management is making more changes to its
executive team as part of a strategic review of its
operations.

For the complete story see:

(
http://www.amm.com/Article/3349676/Scrap/Sims-
finance-chief-leaving-confirms-Kelman-move-to-UK.html
)
SteelGuru - Australian iron ore cargoes at record as
mines boost production – 6/6/2014

Exports from the world’s largest bulk export terminal
surged to 36.1 million tonnes from 34.8 million tonnes
in April.

For the complete story see:

(
http://www.steelguru.com/international_news/Australian_
iron_ore
_cargoes_at_record_as_mines_boost_production/34091
8.html)

Mackay Daily Mercury – Online mentoring for women in
mining continues – 9/6/2014

The Australian Mines and Metals Association has
welcomed funding that will continue an online mentoring
program.

For the complete story see:

(
http://www.dailymercury.com.au/news/female-mentor-
online/2282974/)
Junior Mining Network - Macarthur Minerals announces
AUD$2.24 million private placement financing –
9/6/2014

Macarthur Minerals Limited is currently focused on
developing its Ularring Hematite Project.

Page91of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.For the complete story see:

(
http://www.juniorminingnetwork.com/junior-miner-
news/news-releases/232-tsx/mms/29950-macarthur-
minerals-announces-aud-2-24-million
-private-placement-financing.html#.U5ZtHPmSwms)
Mining Technology - BHP Billiton cuts 170 jobs at
Mount Whaleback iron ore mine in Australia – 9/6/2014

BHP Billiton has laid-off 170 workers at its Mount
Whaleback iron ore mine in Pilbara, north of Western
Australia.

For the complete story see:
(http://www.mining
-technology.com/news/newsbhp-billiton-cuts-170-jobs-
at-mount-whaleback-iron-ore-mine-in-australia-4287978
)

Media Releases
Sale of interest in Clermont Mine completed – 2/6/2014
Rio Tinto has completed the sale of its 50.1 per cent
interest in the Clermont Joint Venture to GS Coal Pty
Ltd, a company jointly owned by Glencore and
Sumitomo Corporation, for US$1.015 billion.
Under the terms of the sale, Glencore has now taken
over management of Clermont Mine, which produces
thermal coal in central Queensland.
The sale of Clermont Mine delivers good value for Rio
Tinto's shareholders. It demonstrates the Group's focus
on strengthening its balance sheet and taking a
disciplined approach to allocating capital.

Rio Tinto remains committed to a long-term future in the
Australian coal industry, where its mines provide work
for more than 5000 people in Queensland and New
South Wales.
A US$2 billion extension of the Kestrel Mine was
completed last year and studies are currently underway
into options to extend the life of Hail Creek Mine, subject
to future investment decisions.

(
http://www.riotinto.com/media/media-releases-
237_10576.aspx)

BHP Billiton Sustainable Communities Supports
Discovery of New Species in the Kimberley – 3/6/2014

Australia is home to more than 560,000 native species,
many found nowhere else on Earth – yet only
one-quarter of this biodiversity has been scientifically
documented.

This week BHP Billiton Sustainable Communities will
play a part in helping document the biodiversity of one of
Australia’s most striking wilderness areas, The
Kimberley, through its support of the Bush Blitz program
– a ground breaking species discovery partnership

Page92of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.between the Australian Government, BHP Billiton and
Earthwatch Australia.

To date, BHP Billiton Sustainable Communities has
invested more than US$4 million in the partnership
which has discovered at least 700 new species since its
launch in 2010. These include 272 species of true bugs,
130 species of spiders and scorpions, 36 species of
bees and 11 species of vascular plants.

The 21st Bush Blitz began on 26 May in the eastern
Kimberley on the Aboriginal owned Karunjie and Durack
stations. Already the participants believe they’ve
discovered many new species, including new true bugs,
spiders, a fish and psuedoscorpions. Traditional Owners
and teachers are participating in the program, as well as
a number of high profile scientists.

BHP Billiton President - HSE, Marketing and
Technology, Mike Henry, said BHP Billiton Sustainable
Communities’ support for the program was consistent
with BHP Billiton’s focus on supporting strong
partnerships.

“BHP Billiton is committed to operating sustainably,
which is one of Our Charter values. The Bush Blitz
program is generating long-term, positive and
sustainable outcomes for Australia and our Company is
proud to be a part of an initiative that is making a real
difference in building deeper knowledge of Australia’s
unique biodiversity,” he said.

“Supporting biodiversity is important to us – we do this at
BHP Billiton mine sites through our land management
practices and through our contribution to programs such
as Bush Blitz which are leading to a greater
understanding of the unique biodiversity values found in
Australia.

“I am really excited for everyone taking part in the
program, particularly the Traditional Owners and
teachers who are playing a key role in the Kimberley
Blitz.”

The Kimberley Bush Blitz also includes a sub project
called Bush Blitz TeachLive, an interactive educational
experience for science teachers and their students.
Science teachers are given a unique professional
development experience and are able to teach ‘live’
back to their classrooms via the Bush Blitz TeachLive
website.

The Kimberley Bush Blitz focuses on participation of
Traditional Owners and science teachers, however BHP
Billiton environmental professionals also often
participate in the programs.

BHP Billiton Sustainable Communities Director, Ian
Wood, said since 2010, 43 BHP Billiton employees have
participated in seven expeditions.

“BHP Billiton employees act as research assistants in
the field and support scientists with trapping species,
collecting plant samples and processing specimens,” he
said.

“It is a highly regarded professional development
opportunity for our people where they learn survey

Page93of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.techniques on a wide variety of species and by the end
of the expedition they have a broader understanding of
Australia’s unique biodiversity and ecosystems.”

BHP Billiton Sustainable Communities is a charity
established by BHP Billiton as part of its community
investment program. Most projects supported by BHP
Billiton Sustainable Communities are multi-year projects
and they predominately focus on building capacity of
individuals and institutions, so that after the project is
completed, it will leave a lasting positive legacy.

(
http://www.bhpbilliton.com/home/investors/news/Pages/
Articles/BHP-Billiton-Sustainable-Communities-
Supports-Discovery-of-New-Species-in-the-
Kimberley.aspx)

Sims Metal Management Limited: Organisational
Change Regarding Group Chief Financial Officer –
5/6/2014

Sydney, Australia and New York, 6 June 2014
(ASX:SGM) (OTC:SMSMY) -- The Group CEO &
Managing Director of Sims Metal Management Limited
(the "Company"), Galdino Claro today announced that
the Company has commenced a global search for a
new CFO. The search will include consideration of both
internal and external candidates to be based at the
Company's headquarters in New York City. Rob Larry
has agreed to step down from the position of Group
CFO effective 21 August 2014.

Mr Claro said that, "Rob had made a significant
contribution to the organisation. I would like to thank him
for the considerable role he has played over his long 18
year tenure with the Company. His guidance,
leadership, and expertise have been greatly valued. Rob
has served as our CFO through a period of significant
change and his steady hand has been relied upon to
provide stability in an otherwise volatile industry.
Through Rob's prudent stewardship, the Company has
continued to maintain balance sheet strength despite
challenging economic markets. I wish Rob the very best
for the future."

Mr Larry said that, "I am grateful for the opportunity this
Company provided to me. I have enjoyed immensely
my tenure as CFO and even the challenges that came
along with it. The finance and information technology
teams are outstanding and will accomplish this change
in leadership seamlessly. I wish the Company the best
of success."
Mr Larry has agreed to stay with the Company up to the
completion of the Company's Fiscal 2014 financial
results, and will thereafter be available to the Company
in a consulting capacity through August 2015.

Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking
Information

This release may contain forward-looking statements,
including statements about Sims Metal Management's
financial condition, results of operations, earnings
outlook and prospects. Forward-looking statements are
typically identified by words such as "plan," "believe,"

Page94of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."expect," "anticipate," "intend," "outlook," "estimate,"
"forecast," "project" and other similar words and
expressions.

These forward-looking statements involve certain risks
and uncertainties. Our ability to predict results or the
actual effects of our plans and strategies is subject to
inherent uncertainty. Factors that may cause actual
results or earnings to differ materially from these
forward-looking statements include those discussed and
identified in filings we make with the Australian
Securities Exchange and the United States Securities
and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), including the risk
factors described in the Company's Annual Report on
Form 20-F, which we filed with the SEC on 16 October
2013.

Because these forward-looking statements are subject
to assumptions and uncertainties, actual results may
differ materially from those expressed or implied by
these forward-looking statements. You are cautioned not
to place undue reliance on these statements, which
speak only as of the date of this release.

All subsequent written and oral forward-looking
statements concerning the matters addressed in this
release and attributable to us or any person acting on
our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the
cautionary statements contained or referred to in this
release. Except to the extent required by applicable law
or regulation, we undertake no obligation to update
these forward-looking statements to reflect events or
circumstances after the date of this release.

All references to currencies, unless otherwise stated,
reflect measures in Australian dollars.

(
http://www.simsmm.com/News-and-Reports/News-
Releases)

Latest Research

Substance flow analysis of steel and long term
sustainability of iron ore resources in Australia, Brazil,
China and India
Mohan Yellishetty, Gavin M. Mudd

Abstract

Substance flow analysis (SFA) provides a helpful tool for
the study of the industrial metabolism of a certain
substance within a regional level. This paper presents
SFA of steel in four countries, namely Australia, Brazil,
China and India. These countries are traditionally
economically mineral dependent and are major
contributors in global iron ore production. For example,
in 2010 together these countries produced 81% of world
iron ore. Based on the analysis it was found that
Australian and Brazilian iron ore stocks will deplete
rapidly while China and India are accumulating. This
paper then presents a discussion on sustainability
issues related to substance flows of steel stocks. The
study is aimed at providing better understanding of
stocks and flows and to inform the policy making for
achieving the industrial metabolism and consequently

Page95of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.leading to better management of resources and
recycling of steel in the countries under study.

(
http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S09596
52614001929)

The Industry

Minerals Industry Will Need 18,000 New Employees To
2018

The release today of the Australian Workforce and
Productivity Agency’s (AWPA) latest report on the
resources sector’s skilled labour needs confirms that
mining will continue to expand in the years ahead,
providing a critical boost to the domestic economy.

The AWPA’s Resources Sector Skills Needs 2013 report
shows that minerals industry operations will need
around 18,000 more skilled workers through to 2018 –
as the sector moves from the construction to production
phase of the millennium mining boom.

The minerals industry has strong skills foundations in
place and welcomes AWPA’s acknowledgement of the
sector’s focus on the skilling and development of its
workforce. This includes:

Spending 5.5 per cent of payroll on training activities,
with one in twenty employees being an apprentice or a
trainee;

the contribution to higher education outcomes, with the
MCA-operated Minerals Tertiary Education Council
(MTEC) contributing $36 million since 1999 to tertiary
minerals disciplines;

Innovative efforts to overcome skills shortages via:

the MTEC Associate Degree program, designed to free
up the time of engineers and geologists by producing a
new cadre of educated technicians, who will have
pathways to full degree status;

programs to cross-train workers in different industry
disciplines such as the MCA/NFF/Commonwealth Skills
MOU and the Regional Agriculture and Mining
Integrated Training Initiative

Efforts to encourage under-represented groups to take
part in the industry – specifically the increase in
indigenous participation (at 3.1 per cent, the highest
workforce participation rate of all industries) and women
(an increase in the percentage of female participants in
the minerals workforce from 11 per cent in 2003 to 16
per cent in August 2013).

The importance of Long Distance Commuting and
skilled migration to the skills needs of the industry.

(
http://www.minerals.org.au/news/minerals_industry_will_
need_18000_new_employees_to_2018)

Leading Companies

Arrium Ltd (ASE: ARI)

Page96of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Arrium Mining Quarterly Production Report For the
quarter ended 30 September 2013

Summary

• Record quarterly shipments of 3.13Mt (dmt) up 0.4Mt
on prior quarter and up 1.5Mt or 94% on the prior
corresponding quarter

• The new higher capacity ship loader at the Inner
Harbour was successfully commissioned mid- July and
achieved its designed rate of 4,200tph within the first
week of operations

• Successful commissioning of new locomotives and
wagons resulted in record railings of ore in the quarter.

• Current run rate supports full year volume guidance of
12Mt.

• The Platts 62% Fe CFR market index price averaged
US$133/dmt, up US$7/dmt on the prior quarter

• Arrium’s average realised price was ~US$113/t FOB
(dmt), up US$9/t on the prior quarter

• Average cash cost loaded on ship ~A$49/wmt1 in line
with guidance

• The port expansion at the Inner Harbour was officially
opened by Tom Koutsantonis MP, SA Minister for
Mineral Resources and Energy on 30 July.

• Civil works in preparation for the recommencement of
mining at the Iron Knob Mining Area later in the year
started in July

Market

The Platts 62% Fe index averaged US$133/t CFR (dmt),
a US$7/t increase compared to the prior quarter.
Continued high levels of steel production, lower than
average port stocks and stable economic conditions in
China have underpinned strong demand for iron ore
and the higher average price.
Arrium Mining’s average price received for the quarter
of US$113/t FOB (dmt)4 was up US$9/t compared to the
prior quarter. The improvement was due to the increase
in the market price as well as lower average freight
costs. The timing of price settlements with customers
continued to be a factor in maintaining a strong price
recovery compared to the Platts 62% Fe index.

Our new Opal blend and Whyalla blend products have
received strong customer support. Lower impurities and
moisture provide sintering benefits to Mills utisiling our
ores. Arrium continues to market the blends to a broader
range of customers, with a number of trials of our
products underway with further prospective customers.

Freight rates moved up appreciably in late August and
September due to factors including longer haul distance
from increased Brazilian exports, increased Australian
exports and the general slow steaming of most cape
vessels to reduce fuel costs, which all reduced ship
availability.

Page97of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Production and Shipping
Hematite ore mined in the Middleback during the quarter
of 2,155 (wmt) was 28% higher compared to the June
quarter. Emphasis focused on crushing output to
achieve the targeted sales rate with additional capacity
added at the Iron Knight during the quarter.
Ore mined by Southern Iron at Peculiar Knob of 810k
(wmt) was up by 13% compared to the prior quarter.
Crushing volumes increased by 337k (wmt) to 1,075k
(wmt) to meet the increase in sales capability with the
completion of the new port at the inner harbour. Record
railed tonnes were achieved in the quarter of 3,340k
(wmt).
Arrium Mining’s ore shipments of 3,125K (dmt) were in
line with expectations and 15% higher than June
quarter, reflecting the full commissioning of the
expanded supply chain at the Inner Harbour. The
combination of the self-powered barge and the existing
transhipment fleet has created greater flexibility for the
operations. The quarter also included 40kt of pellet
sales.

Costs
Arrium Mining’s average cost loaded on the ship
(excluding royalties and depreciation) for the combined
operations at Middleback and Southern Iron for the
quarter of ~A$49/wmt1 was in line with previous
guidance of ~A$50/wmt at the 12Mtpa rate.

Development

Whyalla Port Expansion

The Whyalla Port Expansion Project was completed in
July with the commissioning of the high capacity
travelling ship loader and port capacity has now doubled
to ~13Mtpa. This brings to a close the company’s
successful ~$600 million expansion to double the size
of the Mining businesses’ iron ore sales and Port
capacity, which was delivered on time and on budget.
Iron Knob Mining Area
Arrium has started preparations for mining in the Iron
Knob Mining Area as part of the company’s strategy to
deliver on its aim for sales of at least 12Mtpa over 10
years. Activity to date has focused on the building of
road and office infrastructure prior to the
commencement of pre strip mining later in the
December Quarter. The investment in this project is
expected to be approximately $82 million in FY145 and
includes three open cut mine pits (Monarch, Princess
and Princess West). First ores are expected in the first
half of FY15. The project is running to schedule and
budget.

Magnetite Optimisation Project

Arrium has been a leader in the commercialisation and
use of magnetite in Australia. This project includes
installation of a tertiary grinder and modifications to the
existing grinding circuit to allow the concentrator to treat
a wider range of ores, as well as maximise product
recovery through fine grinding technology and improved

Page98of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.final concentrate washing. The project benefits include
additional output (pellets, lump or concentrate) of ~400kt
per annum with reduced mining activity based on the
consumption of stockpiled materials.

The total cost of this investment is expected to be
approximately $86 million, with $36 million incurred in
FY13, and the remainder expected in FY14. The project
is on schedule and budget with commissioning to occur
in the December quarter. Operating benefits are
expected to commence in the second half of FY14.

Exploration

Exploration activity continues to focus on:

• Adding to or extending the mine life of existing
operations to utilise the full capacity of the Whyalla Port

• Investigating further ferrous opportunities across the
Middleback Ranges and Southern Iron tenements.

Drilling activity in the September quarter generated
10,444m. The program included resource definition
Reverse Circulation (RC) drilling, diamond drilling and
specialist hydrogeological drilling.

At the northern end of the Middleback Ranges, diamond
drilling south of Iron Princess supporting the Iron Knob
Mining Area expansion continued, and then moved to
resource drilling in the South Middleback Ranges.
Results from the Iron Princess drilling were incorporated
into updated resource models and mine design work.
Drilling is expected to commence in the Iron Knob
Mining Area in the second half of FY14.

In the northern portion of the South Middleback Ranges
project area, resource definition and extension RC
drilling continued at Iron Chieftain. Drilling focussed on
inferred extensions north and south of the mineralised
envelope, as well as infill drilling in the pit. Extension
drilling was based on the enhanced understanding of the
structural controls on mineralisation developed over the
last six months and assisted by the use of high
resolution geophysical data. The extension drilling
results are being progressively incorporated into the
mine plan.

In the southern portion of the South Middleback Ranges
project area, RC drilling commenced at Iron Duchess
South, to test inferred extensions to the north and south
of the existing Duchess South mineralisation.
In the Southern Iron project portfolio, resource definition
and extension RC drilling continued and hydrological
drilling commenced on the Hawks Nest project at the
Buzzard hematite prospect. The hydrological drilling is
being conducted with the aim of investigating dewatering
requirements within the proposed pit shell.
In addition to drilling activities on the Southern Iron
projects, interpretation of the recently acquired high
resolution magnetic and radiometric data for each of the
Mt Brady, Windy Valley and Hawks Nest projects is
being used to define targets as part of the assessment
of the potential for both iron ore and iron oxide copper
gold (IOCG) mineralisation within these tenements.
Subject to the result of heritage clearance surveys to be

Page99of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.carried out in 2QFY14, aircore and RC drilling programs
are planned to be carried out in the second half of FY14.

Important information
Arrium Mining is a division of Arrium Limited, a mining
and materials group consisting of mining, mining
consumables and steel and recycling businesses. This
report has been prepared to provide additional
information regarding Arrium Mining’s activities related
to the external sale of hematite iron ore. Due to its
non-mining activities, Arrium Limited is not a 'mining
entity' for the purpose of the ASX Listing Rules and
therefore is not subject to the additional mandatory
quarterly reporting requirements under Chapter 5 of the
ASX Listing Rules. Arrium Limited is providing this report
on a voluntary basis only and, accordingly, this report
may not contain all of the information which would be
required for an entity subject to such additional
mandatory reporting requirements.

The information in this report that relates to Mineral
Resources or Ore Reserves (Reserves and Resources
Information) is based on information compiled by or
under the supervision of Paul Leevers. Except as
otherwise expressed, where a summary or extract of
Reserves and Resources Information is included in this
report, the basis for that summary or extract is the
company’s latest Resources Statement, which is
attached to this report. Mr Leevers is a Member of The
Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy and is a
full-time employee of OneSteel Manufacturing Pty Ltd.
Mr Leevers has sufficient experience which is relevant to
the style of mineralisation and type of deposit under
consideration and to the activity which he is undertaking
to qualify as a Competent Person as defined in the 2004
Edition of the 'Australasian Code for Reporting of
Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore
Reserves'. Mr Leevers has consented to the inclusion in
this report of the matters based on his information in the
form and context in which it appears.

The information in this report that relates to Exploration
Results is based on information compiled by or under
the supervision of Geoff Johnson BSc (Hons), PhD,
Grad Dip Env Sc. Dr Johnson is a Fellow of the
Australian Institute of Geoscientists and a Fellow of the
Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy and is a
full-time employee of the Company. Dr Johnson has
sufficient experience which is relevant to the style of
mineralisation and type of deposit under consideration
and to the activity which he is undertaking to qualify as a
Competent Person as defined in the 2004 Edition of the
“Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results,
Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves”. Dr Johnson has
consented to the inclusion in this report of the matters
based on his information in the form and context in
which it appears.

This report contains certain forward-looking statements
with respect to the financial condition, results of
operations and business of Arrium Limited and its
Arrium Mining division and certain plans and objectives
of the management of Arrium Limited and its Arrium
Mining division. Forward-looking statements can
generally be identified by the use of words such as
‘project’, ‘foresee’, ‘plan’, ‘expect’, ‘aim’, ‘intend’,

Page100of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.‘anticipate’, ‘believe’, ‘estimate’, ‘may’, ‘should’, ‘will’ or
similar expressions. All such forward looking statements
involve known and unknown risks, significant
uncertainties, assumptions, contingencies and other
factors, many of which are outside the control of Arrium
Limited, which may cause the actual results or
performance of Arrium Limited to be materially different
from any future results or performance expressed or
implied by such forward looking statements. Such
forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of
this presentation. Factors that could cause actual results
or performance to differ materially include without
limitation the following: risks and uncertainties
associated with the Australian and global economic
environment and capital market conditions, previously
undiscovered geological features, the cyclical nature of
the steel industry globally, the level of activity in the
construction and manufacturing industries in China, the
occurrence of adverse weather events, the capacity,
demand for and performance of the global shipping
market, commodity price fluctuations, fluctuations in
foreign currency exchange and interest rates,
competition, Arrium Mining’s relationships with, and the
financial condition of, its suppliers and customers,
legislative changes, regulatory changes or other
changes in the laws which affect Arrium Mining’s
business, including environmental laws, a carbon tax,
mining tax and operational risk. The foregoing list of
important factors is not exhaustive. There can be no
assurance that actual outcomes will not differ materially
from these statements.

This report contains certain non-statutory financial
measures including average loaded cost on ship per
tonne, average realised price, measurements of
royalties and depreciation in respect of specific
operations and assets, development and exploration
costs, cash expenses and unconsolidated expenditure,
revenue and other measures. These measures are used
to assist the reader understand the financial
performance of the Arrium Mining division's activities
covered by this report. Non-statutory financial
information has not been audited or reviewed as part of
the Arrium Limited audited accounts. However, a
process has been agreed with Arrium Limited’s auditor
to agree the financial inputs utilised by Arrium Mining to
derive the measures stated in the report.

(
http://www.arrium.com/~/media/Files/ASX%20Announce
ments/FY2014/Arrium%20Mining%20Quarterly%20Prod
uction%20Report%2018%20Nov%202013.pdf)
Alumina Ltd (ASE: AWC)

Alcoa First Quarter Earnings Results
Alumina Limited notes Alcoa Inc’s (“Alcoa”) quarterly
earnings release and attaches it for reference.

Relevant market data to assist readers in understanding
the market, operational and commercial matters of Alcoa
World Alumina & Chemicals (“AWAC”) are attached.
Alumina Limited’s CEO Peter Wasow, commented,
“Margins for the alumina segment improved over the
last quarter due to ongoing productivity improvements,

Page101of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.cost control and a decline in the Australian dollar.
Industry conditions remained challenging due to long
refining positions in the Atlantic region. In China, there
have been further curtailments in refining capacity in the
Shandong region due to uncertainty over bauxite supply
and cost, while inland refiners continue to satisfy
domestic Chinese demand. Worldwide, alumina
demand growth remains robust as the demand for
aluminium outpaces GDP growth.”
AWAC’s production of alumina was 4.0 million tonnes
for the first quarter.
Alumina Limited received capital repayments from
AWAC of $43 million so far this year. Alumina
Limited’s only capital contribution to AWAC during the
first quarter was an equity contribution to Ma’aden of
$18.4 million.
Alumina Limited’s net debt was approximately $129
million at the end of March 2014.

Alcoa Reports Strong First Quarter 2014 Results

Offset by Special Items as Portfolio Transformation
Accelerates

1Q 2014 Financial Highlights
• Net loss of $178 million, or $0.16 per share; excluding
special items,net income of $98 million, or $0.09 per
share
• Revenue of $5.5 billion as realized aluminum prices
fell 8 percent yearover-year

• Record first quarter Engineered Products and
Solutionsafter-tax operating income, up 9 percent
year-over-year

• Global Rolled Products profitability nearly tripled
sequentially

• Upstream segments improved performance for 10th
consecutive quarter
• Best quarterly Alumina after-tax operating income
since 2011,up 59 percent year-over-year
• Cash on hand of $665 million

• Debt-to-capital ratio 35.0 percent; net debt-to-capital
ratio 33.0 percent

• Global end market growth remains solid

1Q 2014 Portfolio Transformation Highlights
• Commissioned $300 million automotive expansion in
Davenport, Iowa

• Investing to double Dura-Bright® wheel production in
Hungary
• Investing $40 million in high-value specialty packaging
facility in Brazil

• Australian can sheet rolling mills to be permanently
closed by year-end

Page102of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.• Reduced operating smelting capacity by 1.2 million
metric tons,or 28 percent, since 2007, once announced
upstream actions executed

New York, April 8, 2014 – Alcoa (NYSE:AA) today
reported strong quarterly results offset by special items
tied to restructuring as the Company’s transformation
accelerates.

In first quarter 2014, Alcoa reported a net loss of $178
million, or $0.16 per share, which includes $276 million
in special items largely tied to smelter and rolling mill
capacity reductions. Excluding the impact of special
items, net income was $98 million, or $0.09 per share.
Alcoa’s value-add businesses drove 76percent of
segment profits in first quarter 2014, with record first
quarter results in Engineered Products and Solutions
and a near three-fold sequential increase in profitability
in Global Rolled Products. Alumina reported the best
quarterly aftertax operating income (ATOI) since 2011
and the combined upstream segments have improved
operating performance for the 10th consecutive quarter.

“We hit record downstream profitability, nearly tripled
results in the midstream, and strengthened our
upstream business for the 10th quarter in a row,” said
Klaus Kleinfeld, Alcoa Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer. “Our transformation is accelerating – we’re
powering growth in our value-add businesses and
aggressively reshaping our commodity business.”
First quarter 2014 revenues were $5.5 billion, down 2
percent sequentially on lower Primary Metals third-party
shipments. Capacity reductions in Primary Metals
combined with an 8 percent decline in year-over-year
realized aluminum prices caused revenues to fall 6
percent from the first quarter last year. The Company’s
value-add businesses drove 58 percent of Alcoa’s first
quarter revenues.

Sequentially, first quarter 2014 results compare to a net
loss of $2.3 billion, or $2.19 per share, in fourth quarter
2013. Excluding special items, first quarter 2014 results
compare to net income of $40 million, or $0.04 per
share, in the sequential period.

Year-over-year, first quarter 2014 results compare to net
income of $149 million, or $0.13 per share, in first
quarter 2013. Excluding special items, first quarter 2014
net income compares to $121 million, or $0.11 per
share, in the year-ago period when realized aluminum
prices per metric ton were $193 higher.

Continued Growth Across End Markets

Alcoa is increasing its 2014 global aerospace growth
expectation by one percentage point (8 percent to 9
percent, previously 7 percent to 8 percent), on strong
demand for both large commercial aircraft and regional
jets and continued growth in the business jet market.
The Company also continues to project 2014 growth in
automotive (1 percent to 4 percent), packaging (2
percent to 3 percent), and building and construction (4
percent to 6 percent).

Alcoa expects a steady commercial transportation
market (-1 percent to 3 percent) and a decline in the

Page103of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.industrial gas turbine market (-8 percent to -12 percent)
on lower orders for new gas turbines and spare parts.
Alcoa continues to project 7 percent global aluminum
demand growth in 2014.

Value-Add Portfolio Transformation

Alcoa continued to build out its value-add businesses in
the first quarter by introducing innovative new products,
investing in high-value expansions, and optimizing its
rolling mill portfolio.

Within Engineered Products and Solutions (EPS), the
Company’s downstream business, Alcoa introduced the
world’s lightest heavy-duty truck wheel. The Ultra
ONE™ is based on Alcoa’s newest and strongest
aluminum wheel alloy,

MagnaForce™. The 40-pound wheel weighs 47 percent
less than comparable steel wheels, and can help save
1,400 pounds per rig for increased payload and better
gas mileage. Over 150 fleets are specifying 67,000 Ultra
ONE™ wheels since they were introduced.
In Hungary, Alcoa is investing $13 million in its wheel
plant in Székesfehérvár to meet rising European
demand for its Dura-Bright® surface-treated wheels.
The expansion will enable Alcoa to produce twice as
many Dura-Bright® surfacetreated wheels in Europe by
early 2015, compared with current production levels.

These portfolio enhancements support EPS’ three-year
goal of generating $1.2 billion in incremental revenue
growth by 2016, with $900 million coming from share
gains and innovations.
Within Global Rolled Products (GRP), the Company’s
midstream business, Alcoa announced a $40 million
investment in its Itapissuma, Brazil rolling mill to
increase production of specialty foils for aseptic and
flexible packaging, the most highly differentiated type of
container in packaging. To further improve the
profitability of the rolling mill business, Alcoa will also
close its two rolling mills in Australia by year-end. The
mills serve the Australian and Asian can sheet markets,
which have been impacted by excess capacity.

As demand for automotive sheet in North America
ramps up, Alcoa commissioned the $300 million
expansion at its Davenport, Iowa facility, and it is now
fully operational. Progress continues on the automotive
expansion at Alcoa,

Tennessee, and the rolling mill at the Ma’aden-Alcoa
joint venture is expected to produce the first auto coil in
the fourth quarter of this year. Alcoa projects that the
added capacity in Iowa and Tennessee alone will grow
auto sheet revenues six fold from 2013 to over $1.3
billion in 2018.

These actions in the midstream will further optimize
GRP’s mill portfolio and support its goal of generating
$1.0 billion in incremental revenue growth by 2016, with
$900 million through share gains and innovations.

Financial Performance

Page104of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Alcoa achieved $250 million in year-over-year
productivity gains against an $850 million annual target,
driven by process improvements and procurement
savings across all businesses. Alcoa managed growth
capital expenditures of $92 million against a $500
million annual target and controlled sustaining capital
expenditures of $117 million against a $750 million
annual plan. Expenditures on the Saudi Arabia joint
venture project were on track at $35 million invested
against a $125 million annual plan.

Free cash flow for the quarter was negative $760
million, with cash used for operations of $551 million,
driven by the normal build in working capital, semiannual
interest payments, and pension contributions. Alcoa
ended the quarter with cash on hand of $665 million.
The Company achieved an average of 30 days working
capital for the quarter, two days lower than first quarter
2013, equal to approximately $120 million cash and the
18th consecutive quarter of improvement in
year-over-year average days working capital.
Sequentially, average days working capital is two days
higher due to normal inventory build in the first quarter.
In first quarter 2014, holders of $575 million principal
amount of Alcoa’s 5.25% Convertible Notes due March
15, 2014 exercised their option to convert the Notes into
shares of Alcoa common stock. As a result, the
Company reduced its debt from $8.3 billion in fourth
quarter 2013 to $7.7 billion in first quarter 2014, with
net debt of $7.1 billion. Alcoa’s debt-to-capital ratio
stood at 35.0 percent, while net debt-to-capital ratio
stood at 33.0 percent.

About Alcoa

A global leader in lightweight metals engineering and
manufacturing, Alcoa innovates multi-material solutions
that advance our world. Our technologies enhance
transportation, from automotive and commercial
transport to air and space travel, and improve industrial
and consumer electronics products. We enable smart
buildings, sustainable food and beverage packaging,
highperformance defense vehicles across air, land and
sea, deeper oil and gas drilling and more efficient power
generation. We pioneered the aluminum industry over
125 years ago, and today, our 60,000 people in 30
countries deliver value-add products made of titanium,
nickel and aluminum, and produce best-in-class bauxite,
alumina and primary aluminum products. For more
information, visit www.alcoa.com, follow @Alcoa on
Twitter at www.twitter.com/Alcoa and follow us on
Facebook at www.facebook.com/Alcoa.

(
http://www.aluminalimited.com/database-files/view-
file/?id=6482)

BHP Billiton Ltd (ASE: BHP)

BHP Billiton maintained strong momentum in the nine
months ended March 2014 with record production
achieved for four commodities and at 10 operations.

 Strong operating performance throughout the period,
the relatively limited impact of the wet season and the

Page105of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.continued ramp-up of Jimblebar underpinned record
production at Western Australia Iron Ore of 163 million
tonnes (100% basis). Full-year production guidance has
been raised by a further five million tonnes to 217
million tonnes (100% basis).
 Queensland Coal achieved record annualised
production of 69 million tonnes (100% basis) in the
March

2014 quarter. A sustainable improvement in productivity
and the successful ramp-up of Daunia has underpinned
an increase in total metallurgical coal production
guidance to 43.5 million tonnes for the 2014 financial
year.

 Petroleum liquids production increased by 16% to 77
million barrels of oil equivalent for the nine months
ended March 2014, underpinned by a 71% increase at
Onshore US. As a result of the successful divestment of
Liverpool Bay and well remediation activities in the
Hawkville that are now complete, total petroleum
production for the 2014 financial year is expected to be
approximately 245 million barrels of oil equivalent. The
overall reduction in full-year guidance has been
mitigated by an increased contribution from
higher-margin crude and condensate.
 Full-year copper production guidance remains
unchanged at 1.7 million tonnes, with a strong June
2014 quarter anticipated

BHP Billiton maintained strong momentum in the nine
month period ended March 2014 with record production
achieved for four commodities and at 10 operations. In
total, production increased by 10 per cent1during the
period and is expected to grow by 16 per cent1over the
two years to the end of the 2015 financial year.
Record production at Western Australia Iron Ore
(WAIO) for the nine month period was underpinned by
strong operating performance, the relatively limited
impact of the wet season and the continued ramp-up of
Jimblebar.

Despite tie-in activities associated with the
commissioning of the first replacement shiploader
scheduled for the

June 2014 quarter, we have raised production and sales
guidance for the 2014 financial year to 217 Mt (100 per
cent basis). In total, we have raised production guidance
for this high-margin business by 10 Mt (100 per cent
basis) during the course of the year.
Metallurgical coal production for the nine month period
increased by 24 per cent to a record 33 Mt and included
record production at all Queensland Coal operations.
As a result, total metallurgical coal production guidance
for the full year has increased by 2.5 Mt to 43.5 Mt.

Following the successful divestment of Liverpool Bay,
production guidance for the 2014 financial year has
been rebased to 245 MMboe. The two per cent
reduction to previous guidance also reflects lower gas
and natural gas liquids production in the Hawkville area
of the Eagle Ford, although planned well remediation

Page106of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.activities have now been completed. Total Onshore US
production of approximately 107 MMboe is now
anticipated for the 2014 financial year and primarily
reflects a lower contribution from natural gas. The
overall reduction in full-year guidance has been
mitigated by an increased contribution from
higher-margin crude and condensate, predominantly
from our Gulf of Mexico operations.

During the March 2014 quarter, the fourth pellet plant at
Samarco achieved first production and commissioning at

Caval Ridge commenced ahead of schedule. The
Samarco Fourth Pellet Plant project will not be reported
in future Operational Reviews. BHP Billiton’s share of
capital and exploration expenditure in the 2014 financial
year is expected to decline by 25 per cent to US$16.1
billion4, as planned.

We continued to simplify our portfolio during the period
with the successful divestment of Liverpool Bay. In the
last two years alone, the Group has announced or
completed divestments in Australia, the United States,
Canada, South Africa and the United Kingdom, including
petroleum, copper, coal, mineral sands, uranium and
diamonds assets. As we announced to the market on 1
April 2014, we continue to actively study the next phase
of simplification, including structural options, but we will
only pursue options that maximise value for BHP Billiton
shareholders.

(
http://www.bhpbilliton.com/home/investors/reports/Docu
ments/2014/140416_BHPBillitonOperationalReviewforth
eQuarterEnded31March2014.pdf)

Bluescope Steel Ltd (ASX: BSL)

Summary

• FY2013 reported net loss after tax of $84M, a $960M
improvement on FY2012

• $30M underlying net profit after tax, a $267M
improvement on FY2012

• $49M 2H FY2013 market guidance comparable
NPAT1

• Major achievements in delivery of NS BlueScope
Coated Products JV transaction and Coated & Industrial
Products Australia turnaround

• Significant financial improvement after restructure

• Net debt of $148M at 30 June 2013, being less
than0.4x FY2013 underlying EBITDA, and a reduction of
$436M from 30 June 2012 (after adjusting for the benefit
of the timing of year-end cash flows)

• Building Products1 underlying EBIT improved to $80M;
growth of 57% over FY2012 driven by Thailand, Vietnam
and North America improvement

• Global Building Solutions underlying EBIT result of
$34M (excludes one-off impact of prior period provision
adjustment). Strong contribution from North America and

Page107of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Building Products China, offset by weaker earnings from
Buildings Asia

• CIPA underlying EBITDA of $150M in FY2013, of
which $71M in 2H. Improved spread; lower loss-making
export despatches; cost reduction performance strong;
domestic volume slightly weaker than FY2012

• Building Components & Distribution Australia
underlying EBIT loss of $25M. Although there is more
work to be done, this is a significant improvement on the
$46M EBIT loss in FY2012

• NZ Steel underlying EBIT improved to $40M in 2H
FY2013 ($42M for full year), up from $2M in 1H. Higher
steel and iron ore prices in 2H, and fewer maintenance
outages

• Hot Rolled NA underlying EBIT of $67M, improved
$5M on FY2012. Continuing review of expansion
opportunities

(
http://www.bluescopesteel.com/media/314696/fy2013%
20results%20presentation.pdf)

Fortescue Metals Group (ASE: FMG)

The September 2013 quarter has seen Fortescue
consolidate its operational and financial positions. Peak
net debt has now passed, with cash on hand at 30
September 2013 of US$2.8 billion and commencement
of the debt repayment programme. Fortescue is poised
to deliver 155mtpa and its commitment to debt
reduction.

HIGHLIGHTS
• Quarterly shipments of 25.9 million tonnes (mt), a four
per cent increase from previous quarter and a 61 per
cent increase on the previous corresponding period. Full
year shipments remain within previously announced
guidance of between 127mt and 133mt.
• Iron ore prices strengthened during the quarter,
resulting in an average realised cost and freight (CFR)
price of US$121 per dry metric tonne (dmt), compared to
US$113/dmt in the prior quarter.

• C1 costs continued to decrease and were US$33.17
per wet metric tonne (wmt) in the September 2013
quarter, reflecting lower strip ratios, cost reductions and
the devaluation of the Australian dollar.
• First ore on ship was loaded from Fortescue’s fourth
berth (AP4) in July 2013, using the third shiploader and
third outloading circuit.
• Commissioning of Kings is underway, with first ore to
be delivered in November 2013. Sustainable production
at the 155 million tonnes per annum (mtpa) rate will be
achieved by the end of March 2014.
• Cash balance of US$2.8 billion at the end of the
September 2013 quarter reflected strong operational
cash flows, rapidly declining capital expenditure and
US$470 million of customer prepayments.

Page108of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.• The Iron Bridge transaction was completed after the
September 2013 quarter and US$623 million was
received by Fortescue in early October 2013.

• Debt reduction programme commenced with the
voluntary redemption of A$140 million in preference
shares scheduled for November 2013 ahead of final
maturity in February 2017

CORPORATE

Balance Sheet

Fortescue’s net debt position at 30 September 2013 was
US$9.3 billion after taking into account cash on hand of
US$2.8 billion and excluding finance leases of US$0.6
billion. Post balance date a further US$623 million of
cash was received from Formosa Plastics Group
(Formosa) representing US$500 million for prepaid port
access and US$123 million for the 31 per cent interest
in the FMG Iron Bridge Joint Venture.

On 17 September 2013, Fortescue issued a voluntary
Notice of Redemption to holders of the A$140 million
(US$128 million) Redeemable Preference Shares. The
redemption of the 9 per cent Preference Shares
removes Fortescue’s most expensive piece of debt and
represents the first step in the Company’s strategy to
reduce debt and gearing levels. Net cash flow
generation is expected to continue through operational
performance and the relative reduction in capital
expenditure as the T155 project is completed. This will
provide the funds to consider further voluntary debt
repayments.

(
http://www.fmgl.com.au/UserDir/FMGReports/Document
s/1266023190.pdf)

Iluka Resources Ltd (ASX: ILU)

OVERVIEW

 Iluka’s combined production of zircon, rutile and
synthetic rutile (Z/R/SR) in the September quarter was
142.3 thousand tonnes, 11.9 per cent higher than June
2013 quarter production of 127.2 thousand tonnes. This
mainly reflects the company’s decision to increase the
processing of zircon-rich concentrate from
Jacinth-Ambrosia in the context of lower levels of
finished goods available and strengthening of zircon
demand in the first half. Iluka produced no synthetic
rutile in the September quarter, as previously
foreshadowed and in the context of its production
curtailment measures.

 Combined Z/R/SR production on a year-to-date basis
was 380.4 thousand tonnes, 41.1 per cent lower than
the 645.9 thousand tonnes recorded for the same period
in 2012. This lower production reflects Iluka’s ability to
flex production downwards in response to lower demand
at the low point of the business cycle, both to facilitate a
progressive draw down of finished goods inventory, as
well as to reduce total operating costs.

 Mineral sands revenue for the three months to 30
September 2013 was $147.0 million. Revenue on a
year-to-date basis was $528.7 million, compared with

Page109of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.$887.3 million in the same period in 2012, a 40.4 per
cent decline, mainly reflecting lower received prices
period on period, as conveyed in the half year results.

 The average Australian/US dollar exchange rate for
the quarter was 91.6 cents, down from 99.2 cents in the
June quarter. The majority of Iluka’s revenue is
denominated in US dollars. A lower Australian/US dollar
exchange rate is favourable for revenues translated into
the reporting currency.

MINERAL MARKET CONDITIONS

After a first half recovery in demand for zircon in a
number of markets, especially China, the third quarter
saw more subdued market conditions in most markets
relative to their robust first half run rate, reflecting both
normally quarterly variations and continuing fragile
business confidence levels, with the latter still impacted
by prevailing and new economic and political
uncertainties. This was reflected in a more cautious
approach to ordering by customers during the quarter.

Demand in the United States, which is mainly
manufacturing related, remained on the whole robust,
while demand in other regions - while higher than 2012 -
is still volatile reflecting the aforementioned business
confidence levels and fragile consumer sentiment.

Iluka previously advised that it did not expect the typical
second half zircon sales weighting to be evident in 2013
sales volumes and this has now been confirmed, with
lower demand in the third quarter unlikely to be offset in
full by stronger sales volumes in the fourth quarter.
As the company has previously indicated, the
pre-conditions for a recovery in pigment, and in turn high
grade feedstock demand, are becoming evident. This is
reflected in pigment producer commentary in relation to
the reduction of pigment inventories to more usual levels
and the intention, over time, to move back to higher
yields at pigment plants and pursue higher prices.

However, seasonal factors in the northern hemisphere
mean that the industry is entering its typical lower
demand period and it remains Iluka’s expectation that
clear signs of recovery in high grade feedstock demand
may not become evident until late 2013 or into 2014.

Iluka’s expectation is supported by increased customer
inquiry levels regarding future supply, especially for
2014, which are at levels not seen for over 12 months.

Iluka’s full year sales expectations for high grade
feedstock volumes are subject to further discussions
with customers but remain at this stage as previously
indicated, which is roughly in line with annual production
of rutile and synthetic rutile of approximately 200
thousand tonnes combined.

While year-to-date rutile prices to the end of September
are in line with the commentary provided by Iluka at the
half, the current pricing environment has weakened,
based on some producers unable or unwilling to await
demand recovery, to a level approximately 20 per cent
below the first half rutile weighted average price level of
approximately US$1,200 per tonne.

Page110of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PRODUCTION

Lower production levels are in line with Iluka’s previously
announced operational adjustments, which reflect a
major operational response to a cyclical low in market
demand and the company’s objective to draw down
finished goods inventory, while preserving capacity to
respond quickly to market demand recovery. On an
annualised run rate, production levels to the end of
September reflect an approximate 60 per cent utilisation
rate relative to typical “mid cycle” production settings
across the main products of zircon, rutile and synthetic
rutile.

Zircon production on a year-to-date basis was 216.6
thousand tonnes, which reflects the processing of lower
levels of heavy mineral concentrate, principally from the
Jacinth-Ambrosia operation in South Australia. Rutile
production was also constrained to 104.8 thousand
tonnes year-to-date, mainly reflecting lower utilisation
rates and the build of concentrate in the Murray Basin,
Victoria. All of Iluka’s four synthetic rutile kilns remained
idle and there was no production of synthetic rutile in the
September quarter following the idling of the last
remaining operational kiln in the second quarter of 2013.
This capacity will be reactivated as high grade titanium
dioxide demand recovers. Ilmenite production
year-to-date was 468.1 thousand tonnes, with some of
this material available for sale and some held in
inventory as a feed source for the synthetic rutile kilns
when reactivated.
At the Jacinth-Ambrosia mining operation, normal
mining operations continued during the September
quarter. During the quarter, heavy mineral concentrate
shipping to the company’s two Australian mineral
separation plants at Narngulu, Western Australia and
Hamilton, Victoria increased in response to a lower level
of finished goods available, and will continue to be
adjusted to meet demand whilst minimising cash
expenditure. During the quarter approximately 120
thousand tonnes of Jacinth-Ambrosia concentrate was
shipped. Over the same period approximately 100
thousand tonnes was processed in Western Australia
and 25 thousand tonnes in Victoria.
At the Murray Basin operations, mining and processing
operated continuously across the quarter, with the
Hamilton mineral separation plant product mix adjusted
toward higher zircon, lower rutile production by utilising
an approximate 20 per cent blend of Jacinth-Ambrosia
heavy mineral concentrate. In terms of forthcoming
operational settings, a number of arrangements are
likely which may entail continued lower utilisation rates
for the mineral separation plant to provide a steady
production rate and production continuity, in light of
market demand recovery, while also allowing inventories
to be worked down.

In Western Australia, the Tutunup South mine remains
idled, as does the Eneabba mine in the Mid West.
At Iluka’s Virginia operations in the United States
mining continues in a lower grade part of the deposit.
During the quarter, the Concord mining unit was
successfully relocated to a new area. Due to mining
being in the lower grade part of the deposit currently as

Page111of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.part of the normal mining schedule, heavy mineral
concentrate production was lower than capacity at the
mineral separation plant.

Appendix 1 shows physical movements on a
year-to-date basis. In relation to heavy mineral
concentrate produced to that processed the year-to-date
figures indicate a concentrate build of approximately 380
thousand tones. In the September quarter, concentrate
produced and processed was more aligned with
approximately 375 thousand tonnes of concentrate
produced and approximately 310 thousand tonnes
processed.

(
http://www.iluka.com/docs/default-source/asx-
releases/september-2013-quarterly-production-report)
Newcrest Mining Ltd (ASE: NCM)

Half Year Financial Results and Resources and
Reserves Update
Today Newcrest Mining Limited released its Financial
Results for the six months ended 31 December 2013
(ASX

Appendix 4D Half Year Financial Report) and its
updated Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves
estimates as at
31 December 2013 (Annual Mineral Resources and Ore
Reserves Statement – 31 December 2013). This market
release is a summary document and readers are
directed to the full text of those releases on the ASX
platform and which are also available on the Newcrest
website.

Key points
Statutory profit of A$40 million and Underlying profit of
A$207 million
EBITDA of A$731 million and EBIT of A$404 million

Cash flow from operating activities was an inflow of
A$228 million
Free cash flow was an outflow of A$229 million

Cash flow from operating activities and free cash flow
were adversely impacted by the reversal of favourable
working capital balances at 30 June 2013
(approximately A$200 million) and the tax payment
relating to the voluntary amendment to research and
development claims claims (approximately A$70 million)

Gearing of 30.5% at 31 December 2013
A$1,250 million7 in cash and undrawn, committed bank
facilities at 31 December 2013
Gold production of 1,207,697 ounces and gold sales of
1,204,507 ounces

All-In Sustaining Cost, of A$1,003/oz (US$925/oz at an
A$:US$ exchange rate of $0.922710)

Page112of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.A$47 million after tax impairment of West African
exploration assets after assessing the carrying value of
all assets, and after taking into account the December
2013 Resources and Reserves update

No interim dividend
Group Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves are
estimated to contain 150 million ounces of gold and 78
million ounces of gold respectively, a reduction of
around 7% and 11% respectively compared with the
previous estimate at 31 December 2012.

Newcrest Chief Executive Officer, Greg Robinson said,
“Newcrest has made steady progress on producing
lower cost, higher margin ounces, while reducing costs
and capital expenditure across the business. Delivering
the second block cave at Cadia and driving group costs
lower remain key priorities. Overall, our focus remains
on optimising our current operations, maintaining our
growth options and maximising free cash flow to enable
the Company to reduce gearing and return to paying
dividends to shareholders.”

Half Year Results
Statutory profit of A$40 million for the six months ended
31 December 2013 (corresponding prior period A$323
million) included the previously announced increase in
income tax expense of A$120 million relating to the
Company’s voluntary amendment of its Australian
research and development claims with respect to the
2009 to
2011 financial years14 and a A$47 million impairment
of exploration assets in West Africa.

Underlying profit for the six months ended 31 December
2013 was A$207 million (corresponding prior period
A$323 million). The benefit of a 26% increase in gold
sales volume was largely offset by a 13% lower average
realised gold price compared to the corresponding prior
period.
EBITDA of A$731 million and EBIT of A$404 million for
the current period represent EBITDA and EBIT margins
of 36% and 20% respectively.

Free cash flow, being cash flow from operating activities
less cash flow from investing activities, for the six
months ended 31 December 2013 was an outflow of
A$229 million, A$694 million lower than the
corresponding prior period (outflow of A$923 million).

Cash flow from operating activities for the six months
ended 31 December 2013 was A$228 million, A$200
million lower than the corresponding prior period
(A$428 million). The reduction in cash flow from
operating activities reflects:
The impact of 13% lower A$ average realised gold
prices compared to the corresponding prior period,
notwithstanding the 26% increase in gold sales volume

The reversal of favourable working capital balances as
at 30 June 2013 of approximately A$200 million,

Page113of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.primarily due to payments made to suppliers in the
current period in relation to higher levels of mining,
maintenance and capital activity in the preceding six
month period, particularly at Lihir and Telfer. Other
elements include the timing of concentrate shipments
and debtor receipts, as well as payments in the current
period of approximately A$50 million pertaining to the
Brisbane office closure and redundancies across the
business which were provided for at 30 June 2013
An increase in interest paid of A$54 million associated
with higher average debt levels, and
The tax payment of approximately A$70 million as a
result of the Company’s voluntary amendment in the
current period of its Australian research and
development claims with respect to the 2009 to 2011
financial years.

Cash flow from investing activities in the current period
comprised:
Capital expenditure15 of A$421 million - A$855 million
lower than the corresponding prior period (A$1,276
million). The reduction in capital expenditure in the
current period primarily relates to the completion of
major projects which were still in construction in the
corresponding prior period, lower sustaining capital and
completion of major production stripping programs at
Telfer and Bonikro, and
Exploration expenditure of A$36 million - A$48 million
lower than the corresponding prior period (A$84
million).
In the current period gold production increased by 27%
to 1,207,697 ounces, and All-In Sustaining Cost reduced
by 18% to A$1,003 per ounce sold, compared with the
corresponding prior period (953,331 ounces and
A$1,230 per ounce). These outcomes are the result of
the transition of major projects to operations at Cadia
Valley and Lihir in early calendar year 2013, combined
with improved operating performance at Telfer, Lihir and
Hidden Valley, and a consistent focus on cost reduction
initiatives.

Initiatives undertaken during the six months ended 31
December 2013 to maximise free cash flow included
reduced mining activity and increased stockpile
processing at Lihir, cessation of processing low-grade
stockpiles at Cadia Valley and reduced open pit activity
at Telfer. These initiatives, combined with the
completion of major production stripping programs at
Telfer and Bonikro, resulted in a reduction in open pit
material movements across the Company.

Following an assessment of carrying values of assets,
there has been a A$47 million after tax impairment of
West African exploration assets. The assessment of
carrying value of assets took into account the December
2013 Resources and Reserves update.

Capital structure

As at 31 December 2013, Newcrest’s gearing level was
30.5%. The Board is comfortable with gearing being at
higher than target levels in the short to medium term, but

Page114of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.will remain focussed on effecting a progressive
reduction in gearing over time, subject to market and
operating conditions.

As at 31 December 2013 Newcrest had an equivalent of
A$1,250 million in cash and undrawn, committed bank
facilities. As announced on 14 January 2014 Newcrest
signed documentation with a new bank to provide a
bilateral loan facility for an additional US$200 million for
a period of three years8. This is not included in the
amount referenced as at 31 December 2013 above.

The Newcrest Board has determined there will be no
interim dividend due to the reduced level of profitability
in the current period, the level of gearing at 31
December 2013, and the planned application of
operating cash flow to completion of the Cadia East
Panel Cave 2 in the 2015 financial year. This is
consistent with the Company’s dividend policy, with
dividend levels set having regard to profitability, balance
sheet strength, and reinvestment options in the
business.
Annual Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves Statement
– 31 December 2013
Newcrest Mining Limited has updated its Mineral
Resource and Ore Reserve estimates for the twelve
month period ending 31 December 2013. For the
purposes of this update, Newcrest has completed a
detailed review of all production sources to take into
account long term metal price, foreign exchange and
cost assumptions, and mining and metallurgy
performance to inform cut-off grades and physical
mining parameters. This has resulted in the most
marginal ounces being removed from the portfolio and
these are reflected in changes to Mineral Resources and
Ore Reserves.

As at 31 December 2013, Group Mineral Resources are
estimated to contain 150 million ounces of gold, 21
million tonnes of copper and 130 million ounces of
silver. This represents a decrease of approximately 11
million ounces of gold (~7%), 0.24 million tonnes of
copper (~1%) and 8 million ounces of silver (~6%),
compared with the estimate at 31 December 2012. The
change in Group Mineral Resources includes estimated
mining depletion of approximately 3 million ounces of
gold, 0.1 million tonnes of copper and 2 million
ounces of silver. In all circumstances Mineral Resources
are reported inclusive of Ore Reserves.

The Group Mineral Resources as at 31 December 2013
includes material changes for the Telfer and Lihir
Mineral

Resource estimates, as against the 31 December 2012
estimate, of approximately 5.2 million ounces of gold at
Telfer and 4.5 million ounces of gold at Lihir.
As at 31 December 2013, Group Ore Reserves are
estimated to contain 78 million ounces of gold, 12
million tonnes of copper and 77 million ounces of
silver. This represents a decrease of approximately 9
million ounces of gold (~11%), 0.34 million tonnes of
copper (~3%) compared with the estimate at 31
December 2012. Silver Ore Reserves decreased by less

Page115of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.than one per cent. The change in Group Ore Reserves
includes estimated depletion of approximately 3 million
ounces of gold and 0.1 million tonnes.
The Group Ore Reserves as at 31 December 2013
includes a material change for the Telfer (Telfer open
pits) and
Lihir Ore Reserves estimates, as against the 31
December 2012 estimate, of approximately 5.3 million
ounces of
gold for Telfer and 3.7 million ounces of gold for Lihir.

Long term metal price and foreign exchange
assumptions for Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves
are unchanged for both Newcrest and the Morobe
Mining Joint Ventures (MMJV) managed sites from
those adopted for the 31 December 2012 estimates,
other than for Gosowong for which Newcrest has now
adopted the same assumptions. The long term gold
price assumption for the purposes of estimating gold
resources is US$1,350 per ounce and for the purpose of
estimating gold reserve is US$1,250 per ounce. The
long term AUD:USD exchange rate assumption of
Newcrest is 80 cents (MMJV price and exchange rate
assumptions vary from those used by Newcrest).

Outlook

Newcrest has previously stated it is managing the
business to be free cash flow positive in the 2014
financial year (after all capital, exploration and corporate
expenditure) at an average realised gold price of
A$1,450 per ounce.

Newcrest had a production and cost performance better
than plan in the first half of the 2014 financial year, and
continues to focus on being free cash flow positive in the
2014 financial year at an average realised gold price
lower than A$1,450 per ounce (after taking into account
all capital, exploration and corporate costs, including tax
and interest), subject to market and operating
conditions.

Newcrest’s cash flow varies throughout the year,
impacted by factors such as shipping schedules,
working capital movements, capital projects and tax
payments. Subject to market and operating conditions,
Newcrest expects free cash flow to be higher in the
second half of the 2014 financial year than the six
months ended 31 December 2013 which was adversely
impacted by the reversal of favourable working capital
balances at 30 June 2013 and the previously announced
tax payment in relation to the Company’s amendment of
its Australian research and development claims of
approximately A$70 million.

Full year production guidance is maintained for both
gold and copper, with gold production expected to be
around the top end of the guidance range (2.3 million
ounces), subject to market and operating conditions.
Newcrest’s All-In Sustaining Cost (in A$ million terms),
and exploration, production stripping and capital
expenditure are all expected to be around the lower end

Page116of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.of the guidance range, subject to market and operating
conditions.

(
http://www.newcrest.com.au/media/financial_reports/201
4/FINAL_201314_HY_Financial_Results_Market_Releas
e_-_140214.pdf)

Regis Resources Ltd (ASX: RRL)

Highlights
GOLD PRODUCTION
• Total gold production for the quarter of 71,991 ounces
at a cash cost of production A$744* per ounce prior to
royalties.

* Cash cost reported only for 63,712 ounces of
production for the quarter from Garden Well and Moolart
Well. No cost reported on the 8,259 ounces of
Rosemont commissioning production.
MOOLART WELL OPERATIONS
• Gold production of 26,506 ounces for the quarter (Sep
13 qtr: 25,403 oz).

• Cash cost of production A$566 per ounce prior to
royalties (Sep 13 qtr: A$605/oz).

• Significant milestone achieved during the quarter with
10th tonne of gold poured.
GARDEN WELL OPERATIONS
• Gold production of 37,206 ounces for the quarter (Sep
13 qtr: 44,475 oz).

• Cash cost of production A$870 per ounce prior to
royalties (Sep 13 qtr: A$755/oz).
ROSEMONT GOLD PROJECT

• Rosemont Stage 1 construction completed and
commissioning commenced in October 2013.
• Gold production from commissioning phase of 8,259
ounces during the quarter.

• Commencement of construction activities for
Rosemont Stage 2 plant expansion.

CORPORATE
• Gold sales of 73,487 ounces at a delivered price of
A$1,493 per ounce (Sep 13:72,079 oz at A$1,477/oz).
• Cash flow from operations for the quarter was $44.7
million (Sep 13: $57.1m).
• Cash and gold bullion holding at 31 December 2013
was $13.2 million (Sep 13:$92.5m).
• Drawdown of $10 million working capital facility to
fund significant capital expenditures during the quarter.

• Regis paid a 15 cent per share fully franked dividend
($74.7 million) in relation to the2013 financial year on
25 October 2013.

Page117of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Regis completed a strong quarter of operations at the
Moolart Well Gold Mine producing 26,506 ounces of
gold at a pre-royalty cash cost of production of A$566
per ounce. Operating costs were 6% lower than the
previous quarter due to an 8% higher milled head grade.
Gold production for the half year ended 31 December
2013 was 51,909 ounces at a pre-royalty cash cost of
$585 per ounces.
During the quarter 316,000 bcm of ore and 1,255,000
bcm of waste were mined from the Moolart Well open
pits for a total material movement of 1.57 million bcm.
Of the total material mined, 243,000 bcm was mined
from late rite pits and 1,327,000 bcm was mined from
the Lancaster and Stirling oxide deposits.

Milling
Operations at Garden Well for the December 2013
quarter produced 37,206 ounces of gold at a pre-royalty
cash cost of A$870 per ounce. As reported on 14th
January 2014, gold production for the quarter was
below guidance of 40,000 – 45,000 ounces largely as a
result of the lower head grade and issues and
complexities around the tie in and ramp up of the
Rosemont ore flow to the Garden Well wet plant. The
head grade milled for the quarter, at
1.12g/t gold, was also lower than the previous quarter of
1.2g/t. As a result the cash cost per ounce, at $870/oz,
was higher than the previous quarter, however the cost
per tonne milled of $26.36/t, was in line with the 25.70/t
achieved in the September 2013 quarter.

Rosemont was commissioned and commenced pumping
ore to the Garden Well plant in October 2013. The
combined throughput of Garden Well and Rosemont
ores through the Garden Well wet plant was an effective
6.4 million tonnes per annum during November and
December 2013. Encouragingly the throughput of
Rosemont ore through the slurry pipeline during this
commissioning and ramp up phase has already reached
1.6 mtpa.

It has become apparent that the current Garden Well
mill configuration, prior to completion of the Rosemont
stage 2 development in the June 2014 quarter, is
constrained to some degree for gold recovery rates at
the current increased throughput rate in excess of
6mtpa. This was borne out with the Garden Well
(inclusive of Rosemont) throughput during the quarter at
6.1 mtpa and gold recovery at 84%. Rosemont ore was
introduced to the circuit on 20 October
2013 and the higher gravity gold component of this ore
had an immediate negative effect on recovery.
Modifications to the gravity circuit (as flagged in the
September 2013 quarterly report) were completed in late
November 2013 but had only a limited impact on
recovery during the quarter as the circuit continued to be
optimised.

With Rosemont now commissioned and on line, the
main focus at the two operations in the March 2014
quarter will be optimising the interim Garden Well plant
configuration to maximise production until completion of

Page118of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.the leaching circuit and associated plant upgrade
(“Rosemont stage 2”) in the June 2014 quarter.
Mining

During the December 2013 quarter 676,025 bcm of ore
and 3.31 million bcm of waste (inclusive of pre-strip)
were mined from the Garden Well open pit for a total
material movement of 3.99 million bcm. Mining of ore
was largely in the Stage 3 fresh zone of the open pit
down to the 390m RL and the fresh zone of the stage 1
pit. Small lower grade blocks were also mined from the
stage 4 and 5 cutbacks to the open pit. In addition a total
of 700,000 bcm of pre-strip waste was mined from the
stage 4 and 5 cutbacks to the open pit down to the
477.5m RL.
Mining Reconciliation
In the September 2013 quarterly report the Company
reported results of 20m x 20m infill drilling to increase
the density of data on the Garden Well reserve for ore
scheduled to be mined for the next year. This infill
drilling model (“IDM”) returned 7.27mt at 1.20g/t for
279,622 ounces compared to the reserve of 6.39mt at
1.32g/t for 270,703 ounces. With higher ounces reported
in the IDM, it is expected that there will be an
opportunity to stockpile lower grade ore blocks and
achieve close to the reserve grade through the mill.

As previously reported, November and December 2013
were the first two months of actual mining based on this
IDM. Actual mining output for the two months was 1.29
million tones at 1.02g/t gold for 42,416 ounces,
compared to the IDM of 1.04Mt at 1.19g/t gold for
39,760 ounces. Accordingly, mining generated 2,656
ounces (7%) more than the IDM, but at 24% more
tonnes and 14% lower grade.

Overview

Limited field work was conducted on exploration projects
during the December 2013 quarter. No further drilling
was conducted at the McPhillamys deposit during the
quarter as geological interpretation and wire framing of
the McPhillamys mineralised ore zone continued as part
of the programmer to update the Resource and allow the
estimation of a maiden Reserve.

The only exploration drilling conducted across the
tenement package was RC drilling at the Rosemont and
Moolart Well deposits of the Duketon Gold Project in
Western Australia.
McPhillamys Gold Deposit

No further drilling was conducted at the McPhillamys
Gold Project during the quarter with work focused on
evaluating the analytical results previously received, the
local geology and the alteration and structure of the
deposit to help define an updated resource
Pre-feasibility work continued on the project including
base line environmental studies and metallurgical test
work.

CORPORATE
Gold Sales & Hedging

Page119of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The Company had a hedging position at the end of the
quarter of 185,790 ounces, being 116,751ounces of flat
forward contracts with a delivery price of A$1,426 per
ounce and 69,039 ounces of spot deferred contracts
with a price of A$1,397 per ounce. The Company also
has sold a gold call option for 50,000 ounces, expiring
30 June 2014 at a strike price of A$1,400 per ounce.
During the December 2013 quarter, Regis sold 73,487
ounces of gold at an average price of A$1,493 per
ounce (Sep 13 qtr: 72,079 ounces at A$1,477 per
ounce).

Cash Position
As at 31 December 2013 Regis had $13.2 million in
cash and bullion holdings (Sep 2013: $92.5m).
Operating cash flow from the Duketon Gold Project was
$44.7 million for the December 2013 quarter (Sep
2013: $57.1 million). In October 2013 the Company
paid $74.7 million as a fully franked dividend of 15
cents per share to shareholders.

Capital Expenditures
During the quarter, Regis drew down $10 million of its
financing facility with Macquarie Bank to help fund the
capital expenditure commitments of the Company’s
projects. These expenditures included $10.5 million to
complete Rosemont stage 1 development, $3.2 million
on Rosemont stage 2 development, $19.9 million on
Rosemont pre-production expenditure, and $11.7
million on Garden Well prestrip mining. These
expenditures will reduce significantly over the coming
quarters.

(
http://www.regisresources.com.au/reports-2/quarterly-
reports#)

Rio Tinto Ltd (ASE: RIO)

Rio Tinto chief executive Sam Walsh said “Rio Tinto has
started the year with a series of performance records as
we continue to drive productivity gains across our
operations. Our Pilbara iron ore business has again
set new benchmarks for production, shipments and rail
volumes for the first quarter and we are well on track to
reach nameplate capacity of 290Mt/a by the end of the
first half of 2014. Our mined copper production
benefited from higher ore grades at Kennecott Utah
Copper and production ramp up at Oyu Tolgoi and we
also had a record first quarter for bauxite, primarily
driven by higher production at Weipa.”
• Record first quarter iron ore production, shipments
and rail volumes. Shipments from the Pilbara exceeded
production in the quarter, despite the impact of tropical
cyclone Christine which closed our ports for three days
at the end of 2013 and affected the progressive recovery
of rail and ports into January. The full ramp up is well on
track to achieve nameplate capacity of 290 Mt/a by the
end of the first half of 2014.
• Mined copper benefited from higher grades at
Kennecott Utah Copper and production at Oyu Tolgoi.
This more than offset the elimination of production from
copper assets divested in 2013.

Page120of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.• Record first quarter bauxite production and shipments
were driven by a ramp up of production at the Weipa
mine in Australia to feed the newly expanded Yarwun
alumina refinery.
• Production of coal improved in the first quarter of 2014
compared to the same period in 2013 due to the
productivity improvement programme.

• Exploration and evaluation expenditure was $155
million in the first quarter of 2014, sustaining the
savings achieved in 2013 whilst progressing the highest
priority future growth projects.

• On 13 March 2014, Rio Tinto launched the latest
phase of its industry-leading Mine of the Future™
technology and innovation programme. The Processing
Excellence Centre (PEC) is a state-of-the-art facility that
harnesses ‘big data’ in real time at seven Rio
Tintocopper and coal operations across the globe to
maximise productivity and improve performance.
Global iron ore production of 66.4 million tonnes (Rio
Tinto share 52.3 million tonnes) and shipments of 66.7
million tonnes set new first quarter records. Rio Tinto’s
share of production was eight per cent higher than in the
same period of 2013.
Pilbara operations
First quarter production of 63.4 million tonnes (Rio Tinto
share 50.6 million tonnes) was ten per cent higher than
the same period in 2013 and set a new first quarter
record, driven by productivity improvements and the
continued ramp up towards 290Mt/a.

Production in the first quarter was below fourth quarter
levels due to disruption caused by seasonal weather
patterns. Severe tropical cyclone Christine closed Rio
Tinto’s Pilbara ports and coastal rail operations in late
December. Heavy rainfall associated with this cyclone
and other adverse weather conditions in January and
February impacted across mine, rail and port
operations.

Following early completion of infrastructure works
associated with the 290 Mt/a project last year, the ramp
up to nameplate capacity of 290 Mt/a continued in the
first quarter of 2014. The newly commissioned system
achieved daily equivalent run-rates at or above
nameplate capacity on certain days in the first quarter,
although performance of the integrated system remains
variable. The commissioning remains on schedule to be
complete by the end of the first half of 2014.

Pilbara marketing
First quarter sales of 64.2 million tonnes (100 per cent
basis) were 17 per cent higher than the same period of
2013, setting a new first quarter record. Sales in the first
quarter continued to exceed production due to the
drawdown of iron ore inventories built at Pilbara mine
sites in previous years to facilitate the rapid ramp up of
shipments to 290Mt/a.

Pilbara expansion

Page121of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Expansion of the port, rail and power infrastructure
capacity to 360 Mt/a remains on track for completion by
the end of the first half of 2015.

In November 2013, Rio Tinto set out its breakthrough
pathway to optimise the growth of mine capacity towards
360 Mt/a at a target all-in capital intensity of between
$120-130 per tonne (100 per cent basis), significantly
lower than originally planned. A series of low-cost
brownfield expansions will bring on additional tonnes to
feed the expanded infrastructure. From a base run rate
of 290 Mt/a by the end of the first half of 2014, mine
production capacity is planned to increase by more than
60 million tonnes a year between 2014 and 2017. The
majority of the low-cost growth will be delivered in the
next two years, with mine production of more than 330
million tonnes (100 per cent basis) expected from the
Pilbara in 2015.
Iron Ore Company of Canada (IOC)

First quarter saleable production was 12 per cent lower
than the same period of 2013 due to the exceptionally
cold weather associated with a polar vortex experienced
in North America.

Pellet sales were 14 per cent higher than in the first
quarter of 2013. Concentrate sales were 33 per cent
lower than the first quarter of 2013 as a result of the
unusually cold weather.

2014 production guidance

2014 production guidance remains unchanged. Rio
Tinto expects to produce approximately 295 million
tonnes (100 per cent basis) from its global operations in
Australia and Canada, subject to weather constraints.
The full ramp up in the Pilbara to nameplate capacity of
290 Mt/a is expected to be delivered by the end of the
first half of 2014. The drawdown of iron ore inventories
at the Pilbara mines will continue to allow shipments to
ramp up ahead of production, with around five million
tonnes of inventory drawdown expected during the year.

Corporate

On 13 January 2014, Rio Tinto announced that it had
maintained its holding in Turquoise Hill Resources at
approximately 50.8 per cent following the successful
completion of the approximately $2.4 billion rights
offering which was fully subscribed. The proceeds of the
rights issue were used to repay loans outstanding to Rio
Tinto, and resulted in a $1.2 billion reduction in Rio
Tinto’s consolidated net debt.

On 12 February 2014, Rio Tinto announced that it had
granted an option to LNG Canada to acquire or lease a
wharf and associated land at its port facility at Kitimat in
British Columbia, Canada. The agreement provides LNG
Canada with a staged series of options payable against
project milestones. The financial arrangements are
commercially confidential.

On 7 April 2014, Rio Tinto announced that it would gift
its 19.1 per cent shareholding in Northern Dynasty
Minerals Ltd (Northern Dynasty), owner of the Pebble
Project, to two local Alaskan charitable foundations. The

Page122of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.decision follows the strategic review of Rio Tinto's
interest in Northern Dynasty announced last year, which
concluded that the Pebble Project does not fit with Rio
Tinto's strategy.

(
http://www.riotinto.com/documents/140415_Rio_Tinto_d
elivers_strong_first_quarter_production.pdf)

Sims Metal Management Ltd (ASE: SGM)

FISCAL 2014 HALF YEAR RESULTS

RESULTS AT A GLANCE
STATUTORY (A$m) HY14 HY13 Change % Sales
revenue 3,593.3 3,428.5 4.8 EBITDA1 113.0 32.1 252.0
EBIT 52.1 (321.4) NMF2 NPAT 9.3 (296.1) NMF2 EPS
(cents) - diluted 4.5 (144.8) NMF2 UNDERLYING (A$m)
HY14 HY13 Change % Sales revenue 3,593.3 3,428.5
4.8 EBITDA1 128.5 93.2 37.9 EBIT 67.6 31.0 118.1
NPAT 42.1 9.4 347.9 EPS (cents) - diluted 20.3 4.5
351.1

SYDNEY, Australia and NEW YORK, February 14, 2014
(GLOBE NEWSWIRE) - - Sims Metal Management
Limited (the "Company") today announced a statutory
net profit after tax ("NPAT") of $9.3 million for HY14,
representing an earnings per diluted share of 4.5 cents.
Underlying NPAT was $42.1 million, representing
earnings per diluted share of 20.3 cents, for the half year
ended 31 December 2013. See the Reconciliation of
Statutory Results to Underlying Results for HY14 and
HY13 in the Appendix 4D for more information.
Sales revenue of $3,593.3 million in HY14 was up 4.8%
compared to HY13. At constant currency, sales revenue
was down 5.3% due to lower average ferrous,
non-ferrous and precious metal scrap prices. Sales
volumes increased by 3.3% to 6.1 million tonnes in
HY14 versus 5.9 million tonnes in HY13.

Statutory earnings before interest tax depreciation and
amortisation ("EBITDA") of $113.0 million was 252%
higher than HY13. Underlying EBITDA of $128.5 million
was 37.9% higher than HY13. The increase in
underlying EBITDA was primarily due to much improved
performance from the Group's metal recycling
operations in Australia, North America and the UK, as
well as higher income from joint ventures. These
earnings were partially offset by lower underlying
EBITDA from the e-recycling businesses ("SRS") in
North America and the UK.
Underlying EBITDA for North America of $43.1 million
was 14% higher than HY13, due to higher sales
volumes and positive translation of earnings from a
stronger US dollar. Underlying controllable costs at
constant currency were $24.3 million lower compared
to HY13. Improved performance from North America
Metals was offset in part by weaker underlying EBITDA
from North America SRS. We note particularly strong
performance in our Eastern region, contrasted by
difficult market conditions in our Gulf region which led to
the idling of our shredding operations in Mobile, AL in
November.

Page123of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Australasia underlying EBITDA of $62.1 million was
111% higher over HY13. Stronger earnings were driven
by increased sales volumes and improved sales margins
in Australia Metals, as well as higher income from
associates and joint ventures. At constant currency,
underlying controllable costs were $16.1 million higher,
up 16% in HY14 compared to HY13, due to increased
intake volumes which were up 18% over the prior
corresponding period. Australasia continues to deliver
strong consistent earnings and cash flows for the Group.
During HY14 construction commenced on a new
shredding facility in Western Australia. Management
expects the facilities to be operational in the second half
of fiscal 2015.
Underlying EBITDA for Europe of $23.3 million was
10% lower than HY13. Improved performance in the UK
Metals operations was offset by lower performance in
UK SRS. UK Metals benefited from stronger sales
margins and its cost reduction program undertaken in
the second half of fiscal 2013 across the Group's UK
operations. At constant currency, underlying
controllable costs were $16.6 million lower, down 12%
in HY14 compared to HY13. Business improvements
implemented at UK Metals are showing positive results.
SRS in Europe remains challenging and we continue to
implement restructuring efforts in the UK.

Total Group underlying controllable costs have been
reduced by $55 million in H1 of FY14 when compared
to H2 of FY12 on a constant currency basis. This
equates to $110 million in annualised cost savings,
which would exceed management's $100 million target.
Cost control will remain a priority for the Group.
Cash flow from operating activities was $37.8 million in
HY14. A further $30.1 million was realised through the
sale of non-core businesses in North America.
Capital expenditures were $29.2 million during HY14
which was significantly lower than capital expenditures
of $82.2 million in HY13. Lower capital expenditures in
HY14 reflect the recent completion of a number of major
capital projects and our intention to maintain low gearing
in recognition of difficult industry conditions over the last
few fiscal years. The Company anticipates full year
capital expenditures to be circa $90 million in FY14.
Net debt at 31 December 2013 was $121.2 million, a
reduction of $32.6 million from 30 June 2013. Net debt
over total capitalisation declined to 5.7%, from 7.4% at
30 June 2013.

INTERIM DIVIDEND
The Company has determined not to pay an interim
dividend for HY14 due to the absence of meaningful
statutory NPAT, and other factors. The Company's
dividend policy to distribute 45% to 55% of NPAT,
subject to the Board's discretion, remains unchanged.

MARKET CONDITIONS AND OUTLOOK

In our largest scrap sourcing market the United States,
we are seeing economic activity slowly improving.
Consumer confidence has grown steadily since 2008.
Consumer confidence is currently tracking near six year

Page124of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.highs, though it remains significantly below levels prior
to the GFC. We expect restored consumer confidence
will eventually kick start the replacement cycle for
consumer durable goods and, in turn, increase scrap
metal generation.

Despite positive leading indicators, US scrap metal
generation remains weak. Based on US Geological
Survey data, US ferrous scrap metal collection fell 5%
through October 2013 calendar year-to-date, compared
to the prior corresponding period. This low level of scrap
generation, coupled with excess processing capacity in
the industry, is keeping competition for unprocessed
material intense. In our view, while the time lag between
economic activity and scrap generation has taken longer
than historical experience, this disconnect is not
sustainable long term. Whilst these conditions persist,
the Company will continue to address organisational
issues within its control, such as costs and operating
structure, so as to improve returns and better position
the Company. Notwithstanding our intention to carefully
manage costs, we remain committed to maintaining our
position in the market to ensure that we will benefit from
economic recovery, particularly in North America, as and
when it occurs.

In Australia, key leading indicators point to a mixed
outlook. Investment in the mining sector is showing
early signs of decline, while General Motors and Toyota
have announced they will cease auto manufacturing in
Australia. Consequently, GDP growth has slowed and
the unemployment rate has steadily increased. Within
this challenging environment, several metal recycling
competitors have either left markets or scaled back
operations. These developments have created the
opportunity for investment in a new shredding operation
in Western Australia, which we expect to become
operational in the second half of fiscal 2015.

In Europe, economic conditions are showing some signs
of stabilisation, with particular strength noted in the UK.
Consumer confidence in the UK has lifted materially,
reaching a near six year high in September.
Encouraging too for the UK Metals recycling business,
the 2013 UK new car market had its best year since
2007 with 2.3 million cars registered, an 11% increase
over the prior year.

Ferrous and non-ferrous markets ended stronger than
they started in HY14. Elevated buying activity during
November and December caused East Coast export
ferrous scrap prices to close HY14 US$40/t higher than
they began.

Entering H2 FY14, ferrous market trading conditions are
challenging. Severe winter weather conditions in North
America have restricted industry ability to collect and
process at normal levels. Our ability to react as
temperatures warm and scrap metal availability loosens
will be a key determining factor for success in H2 FY14.
We also note the steep deterioration in the currency of
many emerging market economies impacted negatively
on export demand early in H2 FY14. Most notably in
Turkey the lira has fallen circa 15% against the US
dollar since the start of FY14, increasing steelmakers'
costs and decreasing the attractiveness of imports.

Page125of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Group Chief Executive Officer Galdino Claro stated, "I
am pleased by the substantial efforts of our employees
which have led us back to profitability, despite the
continued challenges faced by the global metals
recycling industry. At this early stage, having just joined
the Company, I am encouraged by what I have seen.
There exists a strong core of operating assets within
Sims Metal Management, upon which the foundations
for success can be built. However, I also see
opportunities for change and material efficiency gains
which can be won. My initial focus has been to
re-establish a back-to-basics approach by management
across the business so as to concentrate on our core
drivers of profitability to become less dependent on
cyclical industry recovery and capital investment to
achieve attractive returns for shareholders. With that
approach in place, I will progress my strategic review
with my executive leadership team, and expect we will
be in a position to update the market not later than our
full year results."

Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking
Information

This release may contain forward-looking statements,
including statements about Sims Metal Management's
financial condition, results of operations, earnings
outlook and prospects. Forward-looking statements are
typically identified by words such as "plan," "believe,"
"expect," "anticipate," "intend," "outlook," "estimate,"
"forecast," "project" and other similar words and
expressions.

These forward-looking statements involve certain risks
and uncertainties. Our ability to predict results or the
actual effects of our plans and strategies is subject to
inherent uncertainty. Factors that may cause actual
results or earnings to differ materially from these
forward-looking statements include those discussed and
identified in filings we make with the Australian
Securities Exchange and the United States Securities
and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), including the risk
factors described in the Company's Annual Report on
Form 20-F, which we filed with the SEC on 16 October
2013.

Because these forward-looking statements are subject
to assumptions and uncertainties, actual results may
differ materially from those expressed or implied by
these forward-looking statements. You are cautioned not
to place undue reliance on these statements, which
speak only as of the date of this release.

All subsequent written and oral forward-looking
statements concerning the matters addressed in this
release and attributable to us or any person acting on
our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the
cautionary statements contained or referred to in this
release. Except to the extent required by applicable law
or regulation, we undertake no obligation to update
these forward-looking statements to reflect events or
circumstances after the date of this release.

All references to currencies, unless otherwise stated,
reflect measures in Australian dollars.

About Sims Metal Management

Page126of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Sims Metal Management is the world's largest listed
metal recycler with approximately 265 facilities and
6,100 employees globally. Sims' core businesses are
metal recycling and electronics recycling. Sims Metal
Management generates approximately 63% of its
revenue from operations in North America. The
Company's ordinary shares are listed on the Australian
Securities Exchange (ASX: SGM) and its ADRs are
listed in the United States on the Over-the-Counter
market (OTC: SMSMY).

(
http://www.simsmm.com/News-and-Reports/News-
Releases)

aummas : Australian Mines and Metals Association |
simsmt : Sims Metal Management Limited | bkhlp : BHP
Billiton Ltd | bltplc : BHP Billiton PLC
i2111 : Iron Ore Mining | i211 : Metal Ore Mining |
ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying | i9211 : Waste
Management/Recycling Services | i92113 :
Recycling/Cleanup Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer
Services | iewm : Environment/Waste Management
ciprof : Industry Profile | c184 : Joint Ventures | c18 :
Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact
: Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United
States | victor : Victoria (Australia) | waustr : Western
Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | eecz : European Union Countries |
eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western
Europe
Acquisdata
Document ACQIND0020140613ea6c00003

CO

IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page127of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.