NEW AT THE TOP

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

A-Section
NEW AT THE TOP

501 words
6 October 2014
The Washington Post
WP
FINAL
A08
English
Copyright 2014, The Washington Post Co. All Rights Reserved

I grew up in Queensland, in Australia. I always liked the idea of building something and creating
something. I think when I was young, probably because of my father being a property developer, I
thought I'd be an architect or a developer. But as life happened, I ended up in the technology game.

I was nearly finished with university when I took off to London on a work visa. I just thought I'd come
back and finish the degree, but I ended up being a little more fortunate and successful than I expected. I
distinctly remember the day I went to the interview with Bankers Trust. I must have been 22 years of
age. I saw the trading floor and thought, "Whatever I need to do to get in the door here, I'll do." I ended
up working on project teams. We worked on the conversion of the banking systems for the euro
currency when they abolished the various currencies. I then worked on big trading systems that
Deutsche Bank developed. So I sort of fell into IT.

After 21/2 years in London, I went home because my visa was up. I ended up getting a job with a big
management consulting firm. I worked in Indonesia, Hong Kong and Singapore designing e-business
platforms and solutions. I suppose once I'd had a foundation in big banking and I had a foundation in
management consulting, where you learn a lot about various industries very quickly, I felt I knew
enough to have a crack at being an entrepreneur and doing it myself.

It was great. We ended up building all the software, systems and engineering to run those big
gaming-type stuff on television. And then I sold that company to another company. I was only in my
mid- to late 20s then, so I called it the MBA of hard knocks.
I spent a couple years doing consulting work after I sold the business, and then I had that urge again to
start another company. I was doing some work in big banks around security consulting and saw the
opportunity and started Covata, and that was eight years ago. About two and a half years ago, we'd
been successful in Australia and realized we really needed to get into the U.S. market.

When we decided to launch in the District, it didn't make sense for an Australian guy to come over and
set it all up because we were largely entering the intel communities and federal space. The best thing
was for me to stay on the board and monitor things as a founder and director. Over time, we grew more
into the commercial sector, and the investors and the clients all said, "Well, you're the natural guy," and
it was the right time with my wife and kids to be able to move, so it all worked out well.

CT
RF
WP20141006newatthetop1006
RE
austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
IPD
National-Economy
PUB Washington Post
AN

Document WP00000020141006eaa600023

Page93of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.