Australian convicted over $126m boiler-room fraud in UK

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Australian convicted over $126m boiler-room fraud in UK

James Titcomb
353 words
6 June 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
23
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Superannuation
Nine people, including an Australian, have been convicted of a £70 million ($126.4 million) fraud in
Britain, in which more than 1000 investors unwittingly funded a lifestyle of private jets and luxury
yachts.

The participants in a "boiler-room fraud" running out of Madrid between 2003 and 2007 were
convicted after a seven-year operation by the UK's Serious Fraud Office.
In the scheme, investors were sold shares in shell companies or businesses that had been shut
down, and told they would be unable to sell them for a year. When the lock-in period expired, they
found the shares were worthless.

Australian Jeffrey Revell-Reade was convicted on Wednesday of conspiracy to defraud.

Several others, aged between 33 and 62, were convicted and sentenced last year, which can only
now be fully reported.

Profits from the fraud were spent on luxuries including private jet hire, yachts, overseas property and
wine collections, the Serious Fraud Office's director David Green said.

"The victims were deliberately charmed, lied to and bullied, whatever it took to make them send their
money to these criminals," he said. "Over 1000 UK investors were defrauded by these criminals,
who caused substantial financial damage and hardship."
The defendants were found guilty after an investigation aided by authorities in New Zealand, Hong
Kong and the US, code-named Operation Steamroller.

In 2012, Revell-Reade, identified as the mastermind of the scheme, was extradited from Australia.
Revell-Reade and another defendant were found not guilty of a charge of corruption.

Six of the other members of the scheme have been sentenced to between three and seven years in
custody, while one, 62-year-old Michelle Coleman, received a suspended sentence.
Revell-Reade has previously been linked to the Melbourne-based Oz Group companies that help to
manage up to $500 million in Australian superannuation. Trustees for the three funds have
previously said the Oz Group company had an administrative role only and no control over the
assets in the funds. Telegraph, London

CO
NS

sfraud : Serious Fraud Office
gfraud : Fraud | gcat : Political/General News | gcrim : Crime/Courts | gfinc : Financial Crime | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter

Page163of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

PUB
AN

austr : Australia | uk : United Kingdom | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | eecz :
European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020140605ea660004s

Page164of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.