Lynas back from the brink

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Lynas back from the brink

1,318 words
7 October 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
48
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Chanticleer

As someone who has worked in the Coroner's Court in Sydney, Chanticleer is familiar with the smell
of death.

In fact, one day while covering an inquest into another gruesome murder on Sydney's mean streets,
your correspondent was forced to evacuate the Coroner's Court building along with all the other staff,
including the police prosecutor.

A failure in the air conditioning units at the court meant that fumes from down below, where post
mortems were conducted, were seeping into the court room and making work untenable.

This slightly distasteful anecdote is a round about way of saying that until last week there was a
distinct smell of death surrounding rare earths producer and supplier Lynas Corporation.
The company was due to repay $35 million of its $450 million in debt by the end of September.
That was an impossibility which meant the company was on the edge of an abyss.
In a totally desperate move leading up to that debt repayment, Lynas employed Nomura's Hong
Kong office to help find a solution to the debt problem.

The exact details of what Nomura came up with are known as the proposition was scrapped. But
suffice to say the solution offered was not in the interests of Lynas's shareholders.

It would not be surprising if that desperation financing move by Lynas was similar to the outrageously
expensive financing arrangement agreed early last month by US rare earths producer, Molycorp.
Molycorp did a deal with certain investment vehicles associated with Oaktree Capital. That firm is
familiar to Australian investors because of its involvement in the rescue and relisting of Nine
Entertainment Corp.

Oaktree comes from that group of hedge funds which specialise in the strategy called "loan to own".
The companies who turn to Oaktree usually have to give up the family silver and a little more.

The word in the industry is that Molycorp is paying about 12.5 per cent interest on its new financing
arrangements. Also, it has handed Oaktree warrants for shares equal to 10 per cent of the
outstanding common stock at the close of the financing.

The Lynas flirtation with alternative funding arrangements was abandoned following the appointment
of Amanda Lacaze as the new chief executive of the company four months ago.

She initially joined the board as a non-executive director. It was while sitting on the board that she
was reminded of the perception gap that exists in Australia between what people think directors do
and what actually happens.

Page54of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Their power to influence the day to day running of a company is quite limited. Hard questions can be
asked of management but the actual running of the company has to be left to the chief executive.

When Lacaze joined the board, Lynas was shrinking fast in terms of market capitalisation. It had
become a serial offender in terms of its inability to deliver what it had promised.
While the company had built an $800 million rare earths processing plant in Malaysia on time and
on budget it had not been able to make it work profitably.

Shareholders had reason to be disappointed that there was little to show for a total capital investment
of $1.3 billion in Malaysia and at the company's mine at Mt Weld, north of Kalgoorlie in Western
Australia.
The vision and entrepreneurial drive shown by the company's founder, Nick Curtis, was being
overshadowed by operational failures.
Institutional investors had virtually abandoned the company's register. That left about 35,000 retail
investors owning the company.
At one stage, Lynas was a top 100 company. Its market cap had soared during a bubble in rare
earth prices.
But that bubble burst. Unfortunately, a big company mindset pervaded Lynas after the euphoria of a
record high share price and the accolades from brokers and tip sheets.
It says a lot about the company's disconnection from reality that Lacaze was able to save $26
million in costs in her first three months in the job.
Operating costs were slashed by $16 million after the new CEO took the view that the company
should only have offices either where it made things or where it sold things.
The office in Sydney, which cost about $25 million a year to run, was shut down.

Since taking over from former CEO, Eric Noyrez, in June, Lacaze has focused her attention on the
rare earths plant in Malaysia. She has abandoned the volume throughput targets that guided the
entire company's strategy. These targets ignored the importance to customers of the quality of
product and the yield earned per tonne of ore processed.

This new approach should deliver profits but there will be short term pain because of restructuring
charges. The switch to a new way of measuring the output from the plant in Malaysia is to be
welcomed.
From July 1, Lynas now reports the number of tonnes of certified ore it has produced. That is ore
that can be sold to customers.

Rare earth production is complex. The production is expressed in terms of the average price
obtained but Lacaze will work on delivering more of the higher yielding product.
Broker Pattersons has underwritten the $83 million share issue announced last week. This
successful completion of this issue in the next two weeks should be the turning point in the
company's history.

It will bring in new institutional investors and provide an opportunity for investors to provide the
capital to get the company through to profitability.

There are options attached to the shares being issued through the rights issue. That will open the
way to raise another $66 million next year. Lacaze has shown in the past with her turnaround of
telecommunications company, Commander, that she has what it takes to deliver operational
improvements.
The difference this time is she has the capital to not only keep the company from death's door but
deliver on the Curtis vision.

Australia's life insurance industry does not need to be reminded that it has got an image problem.
Consumers are highly sceptical of the promises made by those selling life insurance policies.

That scepticism is warranted given that the person selling the product can walk away with a
commission up to 1.25 times the first year's premium.

Page55of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.There is obviously an incentive in the system for life insurance sales people to churn customers out
of one policy and into another. The system is skewed in favour of the intermediary who also collects
a trail commission lasting for years after the sale is completed.

The industry structure is suited to high pressure sales. Policyholders are open to being churned
because the premiums step up as the policy holder gets older.

Consumers, however, are smarter than they are given credit for. This is evident from the fact that the
strongest growing segment in the individual life market is online sales of life policies.

That trend is likely to gather momentum following the release this week by the Australian Securities
and Investments Commission of a report into the industry's unsavoury selling practices. The
company under the most pressure is likely to be AMP which has the largest network of tied financial
planners and is our second largest life insurer .

The 1990s were the golden age for life insurance salesmen. Many became very rich on the back of
aggressive sales of capital guaranteed products.Unfortunately for AMP and NML, those capital
guaranteed products came back to bite them when it was discovered there was a mismatch between
assets and liabilities.

AMP has avoided the big switch to online sales of life policies because of the threat to tied network of
financial advisers. The company has started a conversation with its advice network but i's in the
early stages.

tony.boyd@afr.com.au Twitter @TonyBoydAFR

Tony Boyd

CO
IN
NS
RE

PUB
AN

lyngld : Lynas Corporation Ltd
ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | iraremet : Rare Earth Metals
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New
South Wales
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141006eaa70005k

Page56of335©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.