GrainCorp veto was 'political'

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Farm Business
GrainCorp veto was 'political'

ANNE HYLAND
765 words
12 June 2014
Farm Weekly
FFARMW
30
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

FOREIGN Investment Review Board (FIRB) chairman Brian Wilson has conceded Archer Daniels
Midland's $3.4 billion takeover of GrainCorp was blocked for political reasons but insists it was a
legitimate decision.

In his first interview since the veto of the agreed takeover last November, Mr Wilson acknowledged
the government realised it needed to explain its openness to foreign investment following the
decision, which was criticised as pandering to xenophobic farming interests and unfair to the US.

He said the ruling was a one-off decision that did not hurt FIRB's credibility because there was a
heavy public pressure on the government to protect GrainCorp, Australia's largest listed agribusiness,
from the Americans.

"The government has worked to promote its open-for-business regime since then. I think most people
would respect that it has done that very successfully," he said.

"It was a one-off outcome of a particular set of timing and circumstances, which I don't believe has
been seen as creating any long-term concern or precedent.

"Most people understand occasionally politics and I don't mean party or partisan, I mean in the
concept of the Australian government's relationship with the Australian people from time to time
politics intrudes into all areas of our lives."

The decision, which was made two months after the Abbott government was elected, was expected
to shed light on its approach to foreign investment.

Instead it raised more questions, particularly as in his victory speech, Prime Minister Tony Abbott had
declared Australia "open for business".
Mr Wilson confirmed the Foreign Investment Review Board was split.
Treasurer Joe Hockey has previously said the six-member board did not reach a consensus.

The government's decision to reject ADM's bid was quickly followed by FIRB and Mr Hockey
approving a $7.5b investment by State Grid Corporation of China.

State Grid bought a stake in power assets from Singapore Power which included parts of Australia's
east coast electricity and gas transmission.

Mr Wilson likened the ADM deal's rejection to Canada's rejection of BHP Billiton's contentious $39b
bid for Potash Corporation, the world's largest fertiliser maker in 2010.

"It was seen as a sensible, logical acquisition by BHP," he said.

Page166of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."For various domestic Canadian reasons at the time, the transaction was not allowed by their foreign
investment authorities. It simply reflected a particular set of circumstances and particularly
unsolicitous timing of that transaction for Canada. ADM-GrainCorp was our BHP-Potash."

Mr Hockey and Mr Abbott said the US-based ADM's bid for GrainCorp was not in Australia's national
interest.

This once again sparked debate about the opaque nature of the national interest test applied by FIRB
and the Treasurer.

"It's really important the various stakeholders that exist in this foreign investment space both foreign
and domestic all have their needs satisfied to the extent possible, which is not always easy because
their needs are diametrically opposed," Mr Wilson said.
The ADM deal was the third significant commercial transaction that had been rejected in FIRB's
history following the nixing of Royal Dutch Shell's proposed takeover of Woodside Petroleum and
SGX's $8.4 billion bid for the ASX.

Malcolm Brennan, special counsel for King and Wood Mallesons, who advises foreign companies
investing in Australia, said the rejection of the ADM deal didn't hurt Australia's foreign investment
regime.

"That prohibition did not have an adverse impact on investment flow which has continued with
approvals issuing in the usual way," he said.

The Abbott government has established an inquiry to determine if Australia's foreign investment rules
for residential property are adequate.

There is also rising public concern about foreign investment in agricultural land and businesses,
particularly as some land has been bought for coal seam gas investments.
FIRB had not been required to look at agricultural land purchases unless they were over $248
million.

The exception was if a foreign government was buying such land.

"The only farm that was able to beat the FIRB threshold was Cubbie Station," Mr Brennan said.

"What the public wants to know is that FIRB is scrutinising what's happening in agricultural land
purchases. There is a belief that FIRB isn't seeing all things in the sector and that's true, they aren't
with the current thresholds."

However, recent free-trade agreements with Japan and South Korea introduced an investment
threshold in agricultural land investment at $15 million.

arch : Archer Daniels Midland Company | grncrp : GrainCorp Ltd
i0 : Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i416 : Flour/Malt Products | icnp :
Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cacqu : Acquisitions | gpol : Domestic Politics | c18 :
Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat :
Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FFARMW0020140611ea6c0000r

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page167of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.