Orica's latest break-up to drive value

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Orica's latest break-up to drive value

Smith Michael Smith
772 words
7 August 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
26
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Michael Smith

It has taken almost a decade but Orica is on the cusp of shedding the last vestiges of its origins as a
chemical company to become a pure-play mining services operation.

The potential $1 billion sale of spin-off of Orica's chemicals unit has been on the cards for more than a
year, which has sparked some interest from potential private equity and trade buyers.

Unless Orica can secure a knock-out price for the business, a demerger remains the preferred option.
The decision looks like a no-brainer given the company's track record with spin-offs and the potential
value that could be unlocked by setting the business free. Orica exited its majority share of fertiliser
outfit Incitec Pivot in 2006 but it was the 2010 demerger of the Dulux paints business which raised the
bar. Dulux's market value has more than doubled since then and it trades at a higher multiple than its
former parent.

Orica management will be hoping for another Dulux moment if they decide to push ahead with the
chemicals demerger in November. It will complete the move towards being a pure-play explosives
manufacturer which was kick off by former chief executive Malcolm Broomhead a decade ago and
continued under current boss Ian Smith.

Orica's chief deal maker, Andrew Larke, has also played a pivotal role in that transformation. He was
appointed to run the chemicals business last year and is expected to head a stand-alone company if it
is listed separately on the ASX. The business makes up less than 10 per cent of Orica's overall
earnings and the idea is that it will have greater access to capital and management's time as a
stand-alone entity instead of being a distraction from the main mining services business. Larke has
already restructured the division, particularly the Latin American business which has had its challenges.
The division's first-half earnings were impacted by one-offs relating to that as well as disruptions on
some mining projects but conditions are expected to improve in the second half.

The idea is that the market would have to reassess the value of Orica's two stand-alone businesses if
they were separated. Analysts have valued the non-mining chemicals business, which is focused on
caustic soda, water care and chemical distribution, between $900 million and $1 billion. Comparable
companies such as Germany's Brenntag trade at 9.5 times forward EBITDA. If things go right it should
be able to generate around 10 per cent earnings growth in its first year and pay a decent fully-franked
dividend.

Orica sees growth opportunities in the fragmented chemicals import market, where it currently has
around a 10 per cent to 15 per cent share. It will be eyeing growth opportunities in markets in Asia and
Latin America and from customers in the oil and gas and agriculture sectors.

A stand-alone chemicals business would also be free of the reputational issues Orica is dealing with
following chemical leaks at its Kooragang Island and Port Botany plants.

Page189of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The parent company would retain any environmental liability.
A sale to one of the private equity or trade buyers currently kicking the tyres remains possible, though,
and they would need to pay a control premium to get a deal across the line. Private equity firms Bain,
TPG, and CVC and all have experience owning chemicals companies and are taking a look at the Orica
business.
Five of the world's top seven chemical distribution firms are owned by private equity. They include
Brenntag, Univar, Nexeo Solutions, Azelis and IMCD. IMCD, a Dutch firm, and Univar in the United
States are in the process of being floated. Potential trade buyers such as Chinachem are expected to
look.

Australian conglomerate Wesfarmers is not expected to make a play for the business despite its huge
warchest for acquisitions.
Wesfarmers is more of chemicals manufacturer compared to Orica's operations, which include a
distribution and trading business.
Goldman Sachs, Citi and Lazard are advising Orica on the demerger and potential sale. Strategically,
the move makes sense and should ultimately deliver value for shareholders. It would leave Smith to
focus on the core mining services business, which faces huge challenges as mining investment cools.
The company reported a worse than expected half year result in May. There will be a lot of pressure on
Smith and his team to what may be Orica's last big transformational deal right.

michael.smith@afr.com.au

CO
IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

iciaal : Orica Ltd
i25 : Chemicals | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources
cspin : Demergers | reqrch : Suggested Reading Chemicals | c02 : Corporate Changes | c11 :
Plans/Strategy | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial
News | cncc : New Companies Creation | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E
Industry News Filter | redit : Selection of Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading
Industry News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140806ea8700011

Page190of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.