Animoca to list on local bourse

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Information
Animoca to list on local bourse

IPO watch Sally Rose
447 words
8 December 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
20
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Hong Kong mobile game developer Animoca Brands is set to become the latest in what is tipped to
be a long line of Asian technology companies to list on the local bourse in the year ahead.

Animoca employs 70 developers producing mobile games based on popular formulas – including
shoot 'em up, role play, and time management games. Licensing agreements make these very basic
games idiosyncratic by embedding popular characters such as Ben 10, Garfield and Astro Boy.

The business operates on a "freemium" model, where users can download and play games for free but
pay to progress to higher levels, or buy add-ons. Games are sold through the Apple and Google App
stores. There are currently more than 100 million active users, with the audience increasing at about
4 million users per month. About 4 per cent of active users convert to paying customers, with an
average spend of US9¢ per month. The company posted a loss of about $US165,000 in the March
quarter.

Money raised in the initial public offering will be spent on marketing. The cost of new customer
acquisition reduces with scale, having dropped from US11¢ in 2012, to US5¢ in 2013 and US1¢
in 2014. Shares in the offer are priced at 20¢ each to raise up to $5 million. A minimum of
$2.4 million must be secured for the deal to proceed. Lead broker is Taylor Collison.
If the maximum subscription is filled the company will have a market capitalisation of $26 million at
listing. Final bids are due by December 12 with the float slated for year-end. None of the existing
shareholders, including Intel Capital, ADG and IDG-Accel, are selling down in the float.
"We have had a lot of interest in the IPO already from small cap focused fund managers in Hong
Kong and wealthy sophisticated investors," Taylor Collison corporate adviser Simon Doherty said.
Animoca's co-founders and major shareholders, David Kim and Yat Siu, are well known among Hong
Kong-based technology investors, having sold their previous venture Outblaze to IBM for an
undisclosed sum in 2009.

Like dozens of technology start-ups over the past year, Animoca is completing a backdoor ASX-listing
via the shell of a failed resources company.

Black Fire Minerals non-executive director, Martin Green, orchestrated the reverse takeover of the
Perth-based gold and copper explorer. Singapore-based mobile app developer MigMe kicked off the
emerging trend in August in a backdoor listing via Latin Gold. This followed mobile marketplace
operator 99Wuxian becoming the first Chinese company to list on the ASX in October last year.

NS

RE

c1711 : Initial Public Offerings | c02 : Corporate Changes | c14 : Stock Listings | c17 : Funding/Capital |
c171 : Share Capital | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

Page56of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB
AN

Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141207eac80000i

Page57of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.