Free trade agreements work well for Elders

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

CO
IN
NS

RE
PUB News Ltd.
AN

Document TOWNBU0020141129eabt00026

News
Free trade agreements work well for Elders

Garry O'Neill, Morgans Financial
237 words
29 November 2014
Townsville Bulletin
TOWNBU
Townsville
49
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

ELDERS (ELD) network operations supply agricultural chemicals, fertilisers, animal health and general
rural merchandise to rural and regional clients. Network operations also offer marketing and sale s of
farm outputs, real estate and property services and financial services.

International trading conducts a range of business including: (i) live export — fulfilling international
orders and facilitating the trade of feeder and breeding cattle to international markets (ii) Wool trading —
ELD exports wool from New Zealand to China and North Asia and Australasian carpet producers (iii)
Feedlots — ELD operates cattle feedlots in Australia in Victoria and NSW and in Indonesia (iv) China
operations — ELD supplies Australian and New Zealand products including beef, lamb, fish, seafood,
sausages, pies, wine and beer through Elders Fine Foods.The agency businesses (recovery in livestock
prices and volumes) and the live export business (strong demand from Asia) made strong contributions
to earnings growth. ELD also benefited from $A28.5 million of cost savings. This was in excess of its
A$25 million target. While net profit after tax was a significant improvement on the previous
corresponding period ($A77.3 million turnaround), it was impacted by the high interest rates under ELD’s
old debt facilities. If ELD can deliver on its strategy over coming years, its share price will be substantially
higher. Add rating maintained. Elders should benefit from free trade agreements.

futris : Elders Limited
i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
mlvstk : Livestock/Meat Markets | e512 : Physical Trade | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat :
Economic News | m14 : Commodity Markets | m141 : Agricultural Commodity Markets | mcat :
Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion
Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

Page262of293©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.