(AEBOP) Birch And Prestige Investment Group restructure announcement

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

(AEBOP) Birch And Prestige Investment Group restructure announcement

358 words
5 June 2014
Ralph Wragg Australian Business News
AAPRAW
English
Copyright 2014 RWE AUSTRALIAN BUSINESS NEWS PTY LTD. All Rights Reserved.

Sydney - Thursday - June 05 (RWE) - Birch And Prestige Investment Group Limited (ASX: BOP) has
today announced the intention for a number of changes to its future business strategy and structure
which may result in a significant change to the nature and scale of the company.

The announcement is subject to approval of the director's resolution in the board meeting of BOP held
on 30 May 2014.

The proposed changes are:

1. Repayment of loan from Runx

2. New investment strategy - Pawn Shops
3. New investment strategy - Tea Seed Oil
4. Business restructure - Sale of B&P Design Pty Ltd

Receive and recover the entire loan and advance from Runx A short term loan and advance of
$3,667,000 was made to Runx Trade Co, Ltd via the company's subsidiary company in Hong Kong,
Birch & Prestige Holdings (Hong Kong)Ltd.

These funds were for the purpose of business objectives outlined in the prospectus dated 19 July 2013.
The prospectus envisages the company setting up its international procurement business and pursuing
other business opportunities in China, for which BOP (Hong Kong) was acquired.

The specific business discussions with Runx were in regards to the supply of cabinet components and
materials to two property projects in Henan, China.

The progress of discussions and planning were severely hampered however, by local government
procedures and policies.
Since the original plan could not be implemented efficiently, the company is of the opinion that
discussions should be terminated.
The company is confident that it is able to receive and recover the entire loan and advance from Runx
which then can be allocated to the new proposed business operations.
New Investment Strategy - Pawn Shops The Board sees the Chinese pawn shop industry as an
attractive area for investment and has the intention to invest in pawn shops in China.
This will be likely to occur through private equity companies as foreign investment restrictions on the
Chinese pawn industry are significant barriers for entry into this sector.
The company intends for this to be a core business activity for the company in the future.

NS

c11 : Plans/Strategy | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News

Page203of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

PUB
AN

china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
RWE Australian Business News Pty Ltd
Document AAPRAW0020140605ea650015r

Page204of272©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.