Delhi, Dior and now pawpaw

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Perspective
Delhi, Dior and now pawpaw

Sue Mitchell
1,559 words
6 December 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
21
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Retail Ravi Thakran's humble upbringing in India is a world away from his role with leading luxury
goods companyLVMH. He loves his job and he's fallen for Australian brands – especially the 'hidden
gems', writes Sue Mitchell.

Perfume, champagne and haute couture were not really essential items in Ravi Thakran's household
when he was growing up in Delhi in the late 1960s. His mother, a schoolteacher, and his father, who
worked in agriculture, scraped and saved just enough of their meagre income to send Thakran to a
good school and university, where he studied science and business before joining Tata Group,
India's largest company.

He's now surrounded by luxury and says he's got "the best job in the world" as head of the south-east
Asian and Middle East operations of LVMHGroup, which owns Louis Vuitton, Moet Hennessy, Krug,
Dom Perignon, Veuve Clicquot, Dior, Fendi, Givenchy, Bulgari, TAG Heuer and Sephora.

"If you're in a job where you can have fun every day, it's not a job," the 51-year-old father of two told
AFR Weekend.

"I've been a very lucky man.
"Even though I didn't know any of these things [growing up in India], today I'm able to learn about
each of these and be able to represent them. I certainly don't take it to the head – I still remember my
origins and keep my feet on the ground.

"If you can do that, if you keep your feet on the ground but still dive deep and love what you're doing
with full gusto, you can enjoy it much better," he says.
Thakran, who has worked at Swatch Group and Nike, is also managing partner of LVMH's
Singapore-based private equity fund, L Capital Asia, which is emerging as a serious threat to the
aspirations of more established private equity firms in the Asia-Pacific region by snapping up more
than a dozen iconic and up-and-coming consumer and lifestyle brands, including in Australia.

Thakran says he can't get enough of Australia or Australian brands and is keen to take them to
consumers around the world, starting in Asia.

"Australian-ness is a unique phenomenon – it's hip and cool, it's very trendy, it's free and easy. The
spirit of Australia is very different . . . all our four brands are connected to the spirit of Australia," he
says.
L Capital has made four investments in Australia, outlaying $52 million for a 49.9 per cent stake in
bush outfitter RM Williams, $75 million for 40 per cent of performance sportswear company 2XU in
2013, about $20 million for gourmet food chain Jones the Grocer in 2012, and $70 million for 70 per
cent of family-owned swimwear company Seafolly last week.

Page70of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.It has a triple-A investment strategy, seeking out affordable, aspirational and alternative brands that
are capable of delivering three-fold returns in three to five years.
"Australians practically live on the beach in summer and a brand like Seafolly is a fantastic reflection
of that – it should truly be a global brand," Thakran says.

"Australia is also one of the most sporting nations in the world – whether you're a real sportsman or
not . . . sporty by nature.

"And it's a market where the outback is something that's celebrated in a big way and people want to
stay connected to that. RM Williams, the way it expresses itself, it should be a global brand."
L Capital was established in 2009 by LVMH and Groupe Arnault, the private company of LVMH's
chairman and chief executive Bernard Arnault, as part of a strategy to pursue growth by taking
minority or majority stakes – rather than full ownership – in the "affordable luxury" market.
The firm has raised more than $US1.6 billion ($1.9 billion) from investors and now has about a
dozen companies in its portfolio, ranging from Ku De Tha, a trendy nightclub in Singapore, YG
Entertainment, the Korean music label behind Psy of Gangnam Style fame, Crystal Jade, a Chinese
restaurant chain in Singapore, and Charles and Keith, an upscale Singapore accessories brand.

It is also attracted to Australia because of its focus on corporate governance and emphasis on
transparency.

Thakran says L Capital can waste a year conducting due diligence on potential targets only to find out
that all is not what it seemed once they take control.
"The law of the land provides great comfort on that, whereas in countries like China, India and
Indonesia, companies often come up short on that front – [they] are used to taking shortcuts and
avoiding aspects of compliance and governance to get ahead. In Australia, you have that comfort that
here things will be far better."

One of the areas where Australia lags the rest of the world is taking brands to Asia.

A recent survey of more than 1000 Australian businesses by PwC found that only 9 per cent were
operating in Asia, only 12 per cent had any experience of doing business in Asia and 65 per cent had
no intention of doing so in the next few years.

Thakran says if consumer brands can survive and thrive in Australia – with its high labour, rent and
logistics costs and small market – they can survive just about anywhere. "If you are able to create
success with all these constraints, you pretty much are ready for anywhere in the world," he says.

"International doesn't mean the UK and the US . . . if they can build a footbridge to Asia, it's almost the
easiest market they can go to, even though they think it's the most difficult."

He says there is a ready market in Asia for well-developed, innovative and credible Australian brands
as consumers become increasingly sophisticated and as young Asians who have studied in Australia
return home with a taste for the Antipodean lifestyle. He cites the overseas success of Jones the
Grocer, L Capital's first and smallest Australian investment.

Jones the Grocer opened its first store in Woollahra in 1996 – giving Australian foodies their first taste
of walk-in cheese rooms and artisanal bread – but went into voluntary administration briefly in 2002. It
now has 16 stores – four in Australia, two in New Zealand, three in Singapore and seven in the UAE,
where it has recently been awarded the country's first liquor licence.

"It's super-successful in the Middle East," says Thakran, who plans to open the first Jones the Grocer
store in New York next year. "We have already multiplied the business since we took it over and we
believe we can multiply by two for the next few years – it's still at a very early stage."

Thakran has similar ambitions for Seafolly, 2XU and RM Williams.

L Capital's strategy is to provide its partners with enough capital to fund growth for five years and
support founders by giving them access to the considerable resources of LVMH.

This can range from negotiating better deals on store rentals, advising on local sizing, store design
and point of sale systems to contributing management expertise from within LVMH or identifying
executives from outside the group.

Page71of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.For example, Raju Vuppalapati, the managing director of Levi Strauss (Australia, Africa and the
Middle East) has taken the helm at RM Williams, and former RM Williams chief executive Hamish
Turner is taking up a directorship at L Capital Asia.
"CEOs can take comfort from the fact that a company like LVMH is behind these companies – they're
not leaving a multinational and joining a small family-owned company, they know that they're joining
a company that is backed by LVMH," says Thakran.

"If it's only capital needed, we are not necessarily the right player, but if you need knowledge skills
and value-add to become global or a regional major, we certainly can add that value and are very
interested."

For this reason, companies such as Seafolly and RM Williams have embraced L Capital after rejecting
numerous approaches from other would-be suitors.

"I've had many approaches over the years but, until meeting L Capital, I didn't come across anyone
who could give us what we need," says Seafolly chief executive Anthony Halas.

Thakran says working with founders can prove problematic, so L Capital vets owners just as closely
as it crunches the numbers.

"You can study the P&L and the balance sheet, but if the leadership doesn't smell right and if the
company does not have the right culture, eventually it will hit the wall," he says. "Private equity has
only a few years with a company, we don't have a lifetime, and you want to make a difference."

After unveiling the Seafolly partnership on Monday and opening Sephora's first store in Australia on
Friday, Thakran is heading to Byron Bay this weekend to check out health and wellness brands.
He is also eyeing a few Australian wine labels and would love to add a pawpaw skincare product to
the mix. "I was very surprised to learn about this product – every Aussie woman knows about it, but
it's not known to the world. "Australia has some hidden gems which can be taken to the world."

CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

tata : Tata Group | vuimth : LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA
i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | icnp : Consumer Goods
| iluxgds : Luxury Goods
cbrand : Branding | nedc : Commentaries/Opinions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c31 :
Marketing/Markets | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter
| nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | india : India | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | indsubz :
Indian Subcontinent | sasiaz : Southern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141205eac600010

Page72of237©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.