AJ Lucas eyes drilling, pipe options

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
AJ Lucas eyes drilling, pipe options

Angela Macdonald-Smith
641 words
2 September 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
20
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Embattled mining services provider AJ Lucas is to eye up opportunities in drilling and gas pipelines
as new chief executive Russell Eggers sees "green shoots" of recovery in the sectors.
Mr Eggers, who took the helm of company in early June, is overseeing a strategic review that is
nearing completion and set to "refresh" the business plan, after an overhaul in senior management
and the board.

He said the difficult market conditions that have plagued mining services could throw up new
opportunities, while the expansion of the east coast gas market pointed to new business in pipeline
construction.

"It's a tough market to be in but it also means that there are opportunities in the marketplace as well,"
Mr Eggers said, pointing to the recent $9.5 million acquisition by Mitchell Services of the assets of
Tom Browne Drilling Services, which had fallen into receivership. "We're well positioned with
supportive shareholders to take advantage of that."
AJ Lucas, 49 per cent owned by Hong Kong-based private equity fund Kerogen, last week reported
a narrowing in its full-year net loss to $91.7 million, thanks to an improved market in the second half,
as well as cost cutting. "There's green shoots. I wouldn't say it's a verdant field, but that would be
reflective of anybody in the mining services game at the moment," he said.

Mr Eggers is seeking to revive AJ Lucas's fortunes after a difficult few years marked by a collapse in
its share price, debt refinancing difficulties and several equity raisings.

His predecessor Allan Campbell resigned in January, 19 years after acquiring AJ Lucas, but still owns
about 6.5 per cent through his private company.

AJ Lucas's share price has yet to respond to the improvement, falling about 50 per cent in the past
12 months and hitting a 23-month low in August. The stock closed Monday at 69.5¢, valuing the
company at $185.8 million.Big staff cuts

Mr Eggers said AJ Lucas had significantly cut support staff numbers in 2013-14, while some of the
construction workforce had departed as projects came to an end. Head office costs have been
reduced as the Macquarie Park office shrank in size.

Further efforts will be made to rein in costs but there will not necessarily be more job losses. "As we
progress it gets harder but we will look at all of our systems and look for opportunities to continue to
drive our efficiency," said Mr Eggers, a former chief executive of pipeline supplier Vinidex and drilling
company Australian Drilling Services.
He said business in AJ Lucas's specialty of directional drilling for the coal industry was gradually
coming back, while the construction division, which focuses on pipelines, would benefit from upgrades

Page12of186©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.to gas networks. "In pipelines we are seeing tender activity. I think that reflects that there's a bit of
ageing infrastructure out there but also the east coast gas demand is growing."

Growth in the gas sector was also prompting some offers by other parties to co-operate on pipelines,
he added.

Mr Eggers also voiced quiet confidence about progress towards shale gas exploration in the UK by
partly owned Cuadrilla Resources, despite protests at proposed drilling sites. "We believe we will be
mobilising early in 2015 with respect to a potential four wells at two different sites in Lancashire," he
said. "All of our planning is towards that and all of Cuadrilla's planning is towards achieving that goal."

He said while he expected ongoing resistance to shale drilling in the UK, "there is an environment
where we will be able to achieve the drilling permissions". Results from the strategic review are
expected at the annual shareholder meeting in mid-November.

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

lucaj : AJ Lucas Group Ltd.
i502 : Heavy Construction | i5020043 : Pipeline Laying | iconst : Construction | icre : Real
Estate/Construction
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140901ea920000d

Page13of186©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.