Corporate: Figtree bets on property development abroad while growing local design business

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Corporate: Figtree bets on property development abroad while growing local design business

By Frankie Ho
1,835 words
28 April 2014
The Edge Singapore
EDGESI
English
(c) 2014 The Edge Publishing Pte Ltd. All Rights Reserved.

Singapore-listed developers may have fallen out of favour with investors as property sales languish in
the wake of efforts by the government to rein in prices. But Catalist-quoted Figtree Holdings, whose
share price doubled on its first day of trading in November last year, still appears to be highly sought
after. Its stock performance seems all the more intriguing considering that it listed to raise funds to get
into the property development business.
To be sure, Figtree is not involved in residential development. The company was founded in 2009 by
Robert Oei, now its technical director, to provide property design, construction management and
building engineering services in Singapore, China and Malaysia. Now, through its associate, Vibrant
Properties, Figtree wants to develop commercial and industrial real estate — not in Singapore but in
China, East Malaysia and even Australia.

Figtree bought a 20% stake in Vibrant Properties last August from Mainboard-listed Vibrant Group,
formerly known as Freight Links Express Holdings and the present sponsor of Sabana Shari’ah
Compliant Industrial REIT. Vibrant Group incorporated Vibrant Properties last July as its real estate
development arm. It has said the real estate business can potentially generate a stable income stream
and help reduce its reliance on its core logistics business, which is subject to the vagaries of global
trade.

Recognising Figtree’s design and construction capabilities and the potential synergies both parties can
achieve by working together, Vibrant Group let the company take a bigger stake of 40% in Vibrant
Properties in January this year. Vibrant Group itself is an investor in Figtree, with a 20% stake.
For a company just starting out in property development, investors seem to have high expectations. At
its current share price, Figtree trades at more than four times its net book value, far exceeding the
valuations of most Singapore-listed developers. It is probably also the only developer — or aspiring
developer — listed here with no debt, although this is likely to change as it takes on more development
work.

“We feel the market expects us to do more,” Danny Siaw, Figtree’s executive chairman and managing
director, tells The Edge Singapore. “The market seems to be saying, ‘As a listed company, you should
take more risks. Use banks’ money to make more money for shareholders.’ We hear it loud and clear.”
Siaw, 49, and his spouse are Figtree’s largest shareholders, with a combined 23% stake.

Figtree may consider borrowing from banks or raising equity, or doing both, but will not rush into any
fund-raising exercise or development project, according to Siaw. It still has about half of the net proceeds
of $10 million raised from its IPO. Part of the money used so far has gone to Vibrant Properties, in the
form of a two-year interest-free loan.
Vibrant Properties owns a joint venture that bought a site in Jiangsu province’s Changshu city last month
for RMB28.8 million ($5.8 million). The joint venture will develop a high-tech industrial park to be leased
out to small and medium-sized auto parts companies from Europe and the US. The first phase of the
67,405 sq m park, due to be completed in 2015, will comprise six blocks of light industrial facilities and a
five-storey multipurpose block.
The Changshu park, about an hour’s drive from Shanghai, is the first development project for Vibrant
Properties and Figtree. “Changshu is the new auto hub of China,” says Siaw. “This will be our flagship

Page204of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.development.” In addition to the RMB28.8 million for the land, an additional RMB150 million is likely
needed to fund the development, according to Siaw, who expects the facility to fetch an annual net rental
yield of more than 10%.
“There are other industrial property developers in that region but they are 40km to 50km away from our
industrial park. The local government has guaranteed that they are not going to award any site to
another industrial property developer within a 50km zone of where we are,” he says.
Vibrant Properties has started marketing the park. Its marketing staff were recently in Stuttgart, home of
high-end car brands Porsche and Mercedes-Benz. “We are talking to seven to eight potential customers.
We are not ready to sign the lease agreements with them yet. We want to hold back on the agreements
until after our German trip,” says Siaw. “We want to pick the best tenants.”
While auto parts companies have already been supplying to carmakers in China, many of them are not
doing so from Changshu, he notes. “A lot of these suppliers in China want to move nearer to the
production plants, but they don’t want to have their own building just yet. They want to rent.” Automotive
players already based in Changshu include Chery Jaguar Land Rover, Qoros Auto and Toyota Motor
Corp.
Figtree first ventured into China in 2011, the year Siaw joined the company. He has been making
frequent trips to China since 2003, while working in other companies. Figtree clinched its first job in
China in July 2011, when it was hired to design and help build a factory and warehouse in Suzhou. It
has since built several more industrial facilities for various companies in China.
After the industrial park in Changshu is up and running, Figtree intends to develop more of such facilities
in China to generate recurring rental income. It will do so either through Vibrant Properties or on its own.
“We want to repeat this business in other cities, such as Shanghai,” says Siaw. “We have a plan in the
next five to 10 years to do another four or five of such parks within a three- to four-hour radius of
Shanghai.”

Eyeing Australia, East Malaysia
Beyond China, Siaw sees major cities in Australia as potential markets for Figtree’s property
development business. He acknowledges that Australia has no lack of foreign developers, especially in
the residential segment, but believes there is still room for more. “Foreigners are still buying homes in
Australia. They are going like hot cakes.”
Foreigners with children studying in Australia could be Figtree’s main target group. “There are two big
universities in Melbourne — the University of Melbourne and RMIT. I would say 50% of their students
are foreigners,” he notes. “Most of the people who send their sons and daughters there tend to buy
properties in Melbourne because renting is expensive. Whoever can send their children there, I think, is
well to do. They can afford to buy property there.”
Figtree’s developments in Australia will probably comprise 100 to 200 residential units each, Siaw
figures. He expects Figtree to make a decision this year about venturing into Australia. If it proceeds with
the plan, it will likely do so on its own, rather than through Vibrant Properties.
Closer to home, the company is eyeing development opportunities in East Malaysia. Unlike Iskandar
Malaysia, Penang and Kuala Lumpur, where real estate prices have risen dramatically in recent years,
key cities in East Malaysia have yet to reach a stage of oversupply in terms of housing, and are therefore
ideal for Figtree to kick-start development, says Siaw, who hails from Sabah.

“Supply in places like Sabah is not catching up with demand,” he says. “Kota Kinabalu [in Sabah] is the
hub for East Malaysia. A year ago, a three-storey terraced house there would have cost you RM400,000
($153,768). Today, you are talking about RM600,000.

“The ‘Popiah King’ invested in Sabah. He’s making a good move,” he adds, referring to Singapore
entrepreneur Sam Goi’s investment in Sutera Harbour Group early this year. Mainboard-listed GSH
Corp, a property developer controlled by Goi, bought a 77.5% stake in Sutera Harbour, which owns a
golf resort in Kota Kinabalu. It also acquired two adjoining land parcels to develop luxury condominiums.

Biggest contract to date
Even as Figtree starts to scale up its property development business, Siaw and his team remain busy
with its design and building business in Singapore, which accounts for the bulk of its revenue. In
January, the company clinched a $178 million contract — its biggest to date — to design and build a
distribution centre in Jurong West to be leased out to consumer goods supply chain manager Li & Fung.

Page205of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The nine-storey, one million sq ft warehouse is slated to be completed in 4Q2015 and will be Li & Fung’s
biggest in the region. Figtree’s current order book is about $250 million.

Unlike most building contractors, Figtree is asset-light as it does not hold inventory and has no foreign
construction workers on its payroll. Excluding the workforce of its associate Vibrant Properties, it has
about 30 staff in Singapore and another 15 in China.
“We are the main contractor for all our design and build projects in Singapore. All our on-site work is
subcontracted out. We break the whole construction project into small packages and we manage each
subcontractor,” says Siaw. “The inventory is held by our subcontractors. Our assets are our expertise
and our office. We are not like general contractors, which have cranes, a precast yard, maybe 2,000
workers, 20 lorries and 200 management staff.”

Value-engineering

That said, Figtree still has to manage its costs well. Its subcontractors invariably mark up their bids to
account for higher foreign-worker levies and the challenge of having to make do with fewer workers in
the light of the government’s push for companies to be less labour-intensive. To cope with such costs,
Figtree carries out what Siaw calls value-engineering.

“We look at the design and trim the fat. In a project or a development, if you want cost savings, you start
from the design phase, not the construction phase,” he says. “One engineer may use 10 reinforcement
bars, while another may say nine is good enough. Another engineer may say even eight is too many;
instead, he uses smaller bars. Our in-house design team looks at things like these and we determine the
most efficient way to do it.”
This approach has served the group well. Figtree’s gross profit margin last year rose to 14.2% from
9.6% in 2012. That may go up even more when the property development business gains momentum.
“As a developer, we will not do anything with a gross margin of less than 20%,” Siaw says.

If he gets his way, investors may have more to look forward to. Figtree’s earnings last year more than
doubled to $8.6 million from $3.8 million in 2012 on higher revenue and improved cost efficiencies.
Revenue increased 70% to $101.8 million, driven by contributions from two construction projects in
Singapore. Figtree’s current share price is more than 70% above its IPO price of 22 cents, valuing the
company at 12.2 times last year’s earnings.

RE

singp : Singapore | austr : Australia | china : China | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) |
apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater
China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia |
seasiaz : Southeast Asia

PUB The Edge Publishing Pte Ltd
AN

Document EDGESI0020140430ea4s00003

Page206of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.