Too late for Australia Post to go private now

SE
HD
BY

WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Opinion - Opinion
Too late for Australia Post to go private now

NICHOLAS REECE - Nicholas Reece, a public policy fellow at Melbourne University, was a senior
adviser to prime minister Julia Gillard.
950 words
11 June 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
39
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

The Coalition believes the political cost of selling the postal service is just too high.

In the 20 decades that Australia Post has been running Australia's mail service it has never seen a
challenge on the scale of the one it is now facing. Its announcement of 900job losses on Monday is
likely to be only the first wave of massive job-shedding for the 205-year-old government-owned postal
business.

The experience of government-owned mail businesses internationally provides a sobering indication of
the impact of the unrelenting transformational force of technological change.

The once mighty US Postal Service has shed more than 70,000 jobs in the past two years and more
than 170,000 since 2006, while Britain's Royal Mail has cut more than 50,000 jobs since 2003. Australia
Post insiders estimate the organisation could cut its workforce by 10,000 in the next three years,
slashing its workforce from 32,000 to something close to 20,000.

The reality is people do not send paper-based letters in the way they once did, instead they send emails
or text messages or make online payments. In the past five years a billion fewer letters have been sent
in Australia than were sent in the five years before. As a result, Australia Post will this year lose more
than $200 million from its mail business and chief executive Ahmed Fahour says this could rise to a
billion in losses within in years.

At the same time, Australia Post's parcel business is facing intense competition. While this part of the
business continues to grow, it is losing market share as online retailers give consumers a choice of
price and service provider.

In early May, the Commission of Audit recommended the privatisation of Australia Post. But judging by
the comments of senior Abbott government ministers at the weekend it seems this is not going to
happen any time soon. The Abbott government has clearly run a financial and political evaluation of
privatisation and concluded it does not add up.
The sale of Australia Post would be likely to earn the government from $2.5 billion to $4 billion, small
change when compared to its annual budget expenditure of $412 billion. It has judged the political cost
of selling the organisation to be much higher.

Privatisations are always difficult, the public view them as the equivalent of the government selling off
the family silver - and likely to lead to higher costs and lower levels of service. Even a policy no-brainer
like privatising Medibank - let alone a trusted name like Australia Post - is really hard.

With its political stocks sorely depleted since the recent budget the Abbott government would stand no
chance of gaining public approval for such a move.

Page231of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Since 2007 the Japanese government has repeatedly scheduled and then cancelled the privatisation of
Japan Post. The latest sale date is 2015, but don't hold your breath.

Deutsche PostDHL was the first major postal service to be privatised, in 2000. The experience is often
held up as an example of a successful privatisation. Postal services improved as a result, even when
compared with other publicly owned mail services. The German mail giant rapidly expanded its parcel
business and moved into new markets like eastern Europe and China just as the internet boom started
to take off - now it is the world's biggest logistics company.
But in other countries, the results of privatising the mail service have been mixed. The sale of Royal
Mail last year has attracted criticism for being "sold on the cheap".

In some respects, Australia Post has missed the boat when it comes to privatisation. If it had been
floated five or even 15 years ago, it had a profit-making mail business and a booming parcel business
with lots of blue sky potential given the early trajectory of online commerce. Now the window of
opportunity has closed and the government is left with a big policy, political and financial headache.

The government-legislated Community Service Obligations require Australia Post to deliver mail door to
door, five days a week, for 98 per cent of the population. It also sets a uniform rate for letter delivery and
requires the maintenance of about 10,000 mailboxes.

Last year, the New Zealand government announced its mail service would be cut to three days a week
in urban areas from July 2015. Deputy Prime Minister Warren Truss has basically conceded that the
Australian government is open to this so long as regional services are protected.

If this occurs it may well be offset by an increase in (profitable) parcel delivery services from five to six
or seven days a week. Uniform mail prices will be the next change to follow.

For its part Australia Post is trying to branch out into new areas such as the digital mailbox: an online
mail box that is certified and secure. It remains to be seen whether consumers will see value in such a
service given most email services are free and most data storage services are free.

The other option is to build Australia Post as a trusted provider of services such as insurance, basic
deposit-taking banking or a one-stop shop for government services such as Medicare, Centrelink, ID
checks and so on. Post offices in other advanced economies have all moved into these areas in
differing degrees as a way to offset the collapse of their mail businesses.

CO
IN
NS

RE
PUB
AN

auspst : Australia Post
i7901 : Postal Service | icargo : Freight/Cargo Transport | itsp : Transportation/Shipping
c183 : Privatizations/Nationalization | nedc : Commentaries/Opinions | c18 : Ownership Changes |
cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020140610ea6b0004m

Page232of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.