Meet the Aussie entrepreneur who reinvented a classic piece of Americana

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
LA
CY
LP

TD

Entrepreneurs
Meet the Aussie entrepreneur who reinvented a classic piece of Americana

Beverley Head
768 words
10 June 2014
BRW
BRW
First
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Myles Sgammotta held his first red cup at a house party in Mexico at the end of 2009. Familiar from US
sitcoms and frat-party movies, the red cup had become a cult item because it concealed the fact that
underage drinkers were chugging beer not soda. It also quickly became the cup of choice for beer pong.

Having completed the commerce element of a commerce/arts degree at the University of Sydney and
just finished the first semester of a graduate law program, as Sgammotta held the cup: "it came to me –
everyone knew about it, but it did not exist in the Australian market".

With little or no intellectual property protection over the original US cup, Sgammotta tweaked the design
with the help of his architect father Max Sgammotta, reduced its volume from a pint to 425ml, rebranded
it as a REDDS cup and launched the business in Australia.
The cup is manufactured in China though Sgammotta is coy about the location, saying only he has one
factory in the north and one in the south of China. He says they are ISO 9000 compliant and that he has
personally visited both to check on the working conditions and hygiene.

While he's tweaked the cup for the local market, Sgammotta owns next to no IP apart from the
trademarked REDDS name. "It's been a concern from day one that someone could come and take the
market," he says.Overseas interest
His strategy has been to create and cement the brand locally, largely through social media, and sign up
distributors to saturate the market, making it harder for rivals to compete. Having marketed the cups
largely through online channels, he has also had interest from overseas and is supplying New Zealand,
adding that a "few North Asian countries" are also interested.

This year REDDS has introduced a blue cup, a slightly smaller cup for spirits and mixers, and a shot cup.
Sgammotta is now planning wine and cocktail versions along with fresh colours.

As to the sustainability of the product, Sgammotta says the cups are recyclable, "but they are plastic
cups – there's no getting away from that".
It's an approach starkly different to that of KeepCup, the Australian company that took the international
invention of reusable takeaway coffee cups and came up with a whole new look, prompting strong
demand for the sustainable cups both here and overseas.

REDDS has cracked open the Australian market for plastic liquor cups, but with the best will in the world,
it can't be described as inventive.

But invention isn't always essential to success.Easier to be second
ATP Innovations director of commercial development Ben Wright says that it's hard to be the first to
market. "It's often easier to be the second or third player, and it is lots cheaper. That's where the REDDS
cup comes in," Wright says, adding that there is a rich heritage of me-too Australian businesses, such as
online discounter Spreets and taxi app ingogo.

Page273of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.While Wright notes that sustainable competitive advantage generally relies on intellectual property,
there is a value chain for all businesses that comprises R&D, manufacturing, marketing and distribution.
"You only have to be good at one of those as long as you don't suck at everything else."

Sgammotta, now 28, is clearly doing a couple of those right.
He claims to have sold 20 million of the cups since launching in August 2010 and boasts annualised
revenues of around $1 million, having signed distribution deals with leading retailers Coles and
Woolworths and their liquor chains. REDDS cups have also been used in a series of liquor promotions –
Sgammotta is currently printing 100,000 for Budweiser.Too early to sell

REDDS, which today employs just three people, Sgammotta included, was funded by his savings, his
parents and, when more capital was needed, other family members before Sgammotta secured bank
financing.

He owns 100 per cent of REDDS CUPS.
Sgammotta says he has had offers for the business but thinks it's too early, as the offers so far
undervalue the business.

But it's not going to be his life's work; he's in the early stages of setting up two other businesses – one in
the tech sector and one a service business that will be launched in the next eight to 12 months –
although this time with co-founders involved.

"I've done the solo start-up now. It's a very taxing experience."

RE

austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
| namz : North America | nswals : New South Wales

PUB Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
AN

Document BRW0000020140610ea6a00006

Page274of284©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.