Three-Minute Digest

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Top Stories
Three-Minute Digest

509 words
17 July 2014
Business Times Singapore
STBT
English
(c) 2014 Singapore Press Holdings Limited

Magnate allays fears over Iskandar building glut

CONCERNS about a looming housing glut and slipping asset values in Malaysia's Iskandar
development region may be overdone - if one believes what the boss of Iskandar Waterfront
Holdings, the master developer of Danga Bay where many Chinese developers have homed in, has
to say.

COE quotas to fall 6% from August

THE number of certificates of entitlement will contract by 6 per cent from next month for the next
three months. The quota for August to October will be 11,331, or 729 pieces fewer than in the current
May-to-July quota period.

SMEs slightly more optimistic about H2 growth

SMALL and medium-sized enterprises here are slightly more positive about their growth in the next
six months. But on the whole, business sentiment is still not strong due to manpower curbs, business
leaders said.

Hospital bed crunch a cumulative problem

AS Singapore moves to adopt universal healthcare through MediShield Life, observers say the
government needs to review its long-term care financing structure and explore community-based
alternatives in view of the hospital bed crunch here.

Kuala Lumpur warned against interfering in Petronas

VETERAN Malaysian journalist Abdul Kadir Jasin yesterday warned the government against
interfering in the financial affairs of Petronas, following the national oil firm's promotion up the ranks
of the Fortune 500 list.

Sabana Reit's Q2 distribution per unit lower at 1.86 cents

SABANA Reit yesterday posted a distribution per unit of 1.86 cents for its second quarter ended June
30 - down 22.5 per cent from a year ago. The three months saw income available for distribution fall
16.6 per cent to $13 million.
Olam's 5-year $400m bonds snapped up
OLAM International's five-year $400 million bond issue received strong demand from private bank
clients, said DBS Bank. The issue, the first after Olam became a Temasek Holdings subsidiary,
received orders exceeding $1.7 billion.

Get an Easy Taxi via the WeChat app

COMPETITION in the taxi booking market here moved up another notch with Easy Taxi announcing
that it has partnered WeChat to let users book taxis directly via the messaging app.

Page177of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Bankers woo Maybank with M&A ideas
INVESTMENT banks are rushing to court Malayan Banking Bhd with a range of M&A ideas,
convinced that arch-rival CIMB Group's plan to acquire two lenders will push Malaysia's top bank to
do a deal of its own.

Canberra keeps Qantas in Aussie hands

THE Australian government yesterday abandoned plans to allow struggling national carrier Qantas to
be majority overseas-owned but agreed to a compromise that will see foreign investment restrictions
eased.
Spring Grove up for en bloc sale at $1.39b
SPRING Grove condominium in the prime Grange Road area has officially been launched for sale by
tender and expects offers of more than $1.39 billion. If it goes through, this would beat Farrer
Court's record $1.14 billion en bloc sale in 2007.

CO
IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

iswhsb : Iskandar Waterfront Holdings Sdn. Bhd.
i815020602 : Real Estate Investment Trusts | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150206 :
Investment Trusts/Funds | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv :
Investing/Securities | ireest : Real Estate | i501 : Building Construction | iconst : Construction
ncdig : Corporate Digests | ncat : Content Types
malay : Malaysia | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania |
devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
Singapore Press Holdings Limited
Document STBT000020140716ea7h0003c

Page178of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.