Consolidation expected

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

WestReg
Consolidation expected

Mike Exell
458 words
17 July 2014
Kalgoorlie Miner
KALGOO
First
11
English
(c) 2014 West Australian Newspapers Limited

Norton Gold Fields managing director Dianmin Chen says he believes there will be more
consolidation in the WA gold industry with the present market conditions.
The Chinese-owned company has dominated the headlines in recent months with its successful
takeover of Bullabulling Gold, of which it now owns more than 60 per cent.

The successful bid has increased Norton’s market share in the Goldfields, delivering Bullabulling’s
low-grade Coolgardie gold project and the Paddington and Enterprise mines it already operates.

Norton launched the surprise bid in April and originally offered 7 cents per share, but was rebuffed
by the Bullabulling board, which urged shareholders not to take up the offer.
The company, owned by Chinese giants Zijin Mining Group, continued to increase its stake and
the takeover was essentially completed when Resolute Mining sold its 6 per cent stake in the
project to Norton earlier this month.
This increased its stake to 41.35 per cent and, combined with an increased 8 cents per share
offer, forced the Bullabulling board’s hand.

“The directors have reached the inevitable conclusion that they should amend their
recommendation to shareholders, and therefore have unanimously resolved to recommend that
shareholders acc- ept Norton’s 8 cents offer,” it said.
Norton held 55.92 per cent of the former gold producer’s ordinary shares when managing director
Dianmin Chen spoke to the Kalgoorlie Miner late on Tuesday.
However, its holdings increased to 61.09 per cent, or more than 214 million fully paid shares
yesterday.
Mr Chen said despite the complications during the bid, he was very pleased the company had a
controlling interest.
“Passing the 50 per cent share in the company certainly shows the shareholders have been
accepting and we’re hoping to secure as much as we can,” he said.

“I think our offer is very attractive.

“I know the Bullabulling board thinks it’s a bit low, but there is overwhelming support from the
shareholders and in this market it is very fair value.
“The market is tough, but I think we’ve provided good news for the gold mining industry and we
expect more and more consolidation in the gold industry.”

Page187of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mr Chen said he had very high hopes for the future of the Coolgardie project and believed Norton
was the right company to take advantage of the 3.5Moz deposit.

“We need to see where we are with the project now and what we can do with it,” he said.

“What we would like is to fully understand it and get the best out of the deposit.

“For us, we know we have enough experience to really develop the project and we’re confident we
can bring it into production.”

cnchgd : Bullabulling Gold Limited | nogofe : Norton Gold Fields Ltd
i2112 : Silver Ore Mining | i22472 : Precious Metals | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | i22 : Primary Metals
| i224 : Non-ferrous Metals | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | igoldm
: Gold Ore Mining
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | cacqu : Acquisitions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document KALGOO0020140716ea7h0000k

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page188of248©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.