Suitors run eye over Devine

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Suitors run eye over Devine

Bridget Carter, Construction
590 words
12 July 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
27
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Exclusive Japan’s two largest home builders and AVJennings have emerged as potential bidders for
the listed Queensland residential property group Devine as part of the $1 billion-plus asset sell-off
by Leighton Holdings.

Sources have confirmed that Daiwa House and Sekisui House have been investigating a potential
purchase of the $162 million developer.

Leighton is also preparing to offload Leighton Properties, which is believed to have drawn interest
out of Singapore, where major developers such as the Ascendas group could be in the frame as a
suitor.
The appetite for Australia’s top apartment developers is gaining momentum, as Singapore-based
Frasers Centrepoint bids $2.6bn for Australand and Chinese giant Greenland Holdings embarks on
a $600m high rise complex in the heart of Sydney.

A return of home building volumes to near record levels is also adding favour to the previously
shunned property sector.

Devine recently upgraded its annual net profit guidance to between $12m and $14m, from $7m to
$10m, on the back of rising demand for its apartments.

Operating in Queensland, Victoria, South Australia and more recently NSW, Devine has built 24,000
apartments since its 1993 listing and has a $3bn project pipeline for 13,700 homes.

It is half-owned by Leighton, and was originally founded in 1983 by Queensland developer David
Devine.
Its shares have risen from about 74c a year ago to close at $1.02 last night. The company last
month confirmed Leighton had launched an expressions of interest process for its stake.
Housing and apartment developer AVJennings had previously been speculated as a potential
suitor for Devine, while Japan’s largest home builder, Daiwa House, has a presence in Australia and
is thought to have been eyeing potential acquisition opportunities for some time.

Sekisui House is Japan’s second-largest developer and already has joint ventures on various
projects with Frasers Centrepoint in Singapore and Australia, including the $2bn Central Park
project in Sydney’s inner-city suburb of Chippendale.
The company has $1bn of annual turnover here and while it first came to Australia as a developer,
it branched into contract home building through the acquisition of AVJennings’ contract building
business for $18.5m in 2010.
Leighton’s asset sell-off follows a proportional takeover bid for the group by its parent
companyHochtief, which is controlled by Spanish construction giant ACS.

Page195of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The potential sale of Leighton Properties is being handled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Its
most attractive asset is though to be joint venture rights with Mirvac to develop Sydney’s Green
Square Town Centre mixed use project, which has an end value of $1.1bn.
Some have suggested the assets could be sold individually.
Macquarie Capital is handling the sale of Leighton’s John Holland construction business, with initial
bids expected to close at the end of this month.

Global groups are expected to show strong interest for Holland, which advisers have been pitching
as an opportunity to get a foothold in the Australian market.

Commonwealth Bank analyst Ben Brownette previously said in a research note that John Holland
would be attractive to a buyer such as US-based KBR, Korea’s Samsung C&T or French
construction giant Bouygues.

Bouygues, among other groups, had already shown interest, sources said.John Holland generates
close to a quarter of Leighton’s $22.5bn of annual revenue, and its sale, along with the divestment
of other assets, could generate billions of dollars for the construction giant

leiho : Leighton Holdings Ltd | sekho : Sekisui House Ltd | hocht : Hochtief AG | ocisa : ACS
Actividades de Construcciones y Servicios SA
i5010022 : Residential Building Construction | i501 : Building Construction | iconst : Construction |
icre : Real Estate/Construction | i502 : Heavy Construction
c182 : Asset Transactions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry
News Filter
austr : Australia | singp : Singapore | jap : Japan | queensl : Queensland | sydney : Sydney | apacz :
Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | easiaz : Eastern Asia | nswals : New South
Wales | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140711ea7c00097

CO

IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page196of339©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.