Foreign investors show Lactanz interest

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

EARLY GENERAL NEWS
Foreign investors show Lactanz interest

RACHAEL ANDREWS
441 words
25 September 2014
Farm Weekly
FFARMW
16
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

THE large Lactanz Dairy operation in Scott River is again on the market, with foreign investors
being courted as potential buyers.
Serious investors from Malaysia, Indonesia, Japan, Singapore, Hong Kong and mainland China
have visited WA to inspect the dairy with new selling agent CBRE Agribusiness conducting site
tours and presentations.

This latest attempt to sell the 2208 hectare holding of four properties and dairy herd of more than
4000 cows comes just 12 months after a failed attempt to sell the operation for $30 million.

CBRE Agribusiness regional director Danny Thomas said the inclusion of the cow herd, which had
previously been owned by dairy processor Brownes until it sold this asset in June, put Lactanz in a
much better position to be sold.

"This time, somebody can come along and step straight in and have cash flow from day one," Mr
Thomas said.
However, an exclusive milk supply agreement for Brownes, which is also reported to be attracting
interest from foreign investors as owner Archer Capital seeks a co-investor, remains until June 30,
2015.

"The market is in a much better position than it was, the money is back in the industry and there is a
fairly decent milk price attracting buyers," Mr Thomas said.

"Foreign investors are being attracted to the whole package.

"The big vote of confidence is that management and staff is already in place for the four really
productive farms."
Lactanz is being offered for sale as a whole entity, or as four separate farms and expressions of
interest are being taken until the end of October.

It has been in receivership with Ferrier Hodgson for the past 12 months.

Mr Thomas said in addition to the several groups of foreign investors that had already toured the
site, more visits were planned in the next fortnight.

He also said he was planning a trip to Asia before expressions of interest closed at the end of
October to initiate further talks with interested parties.

These recent site tours coincided with the Department of Agriculture and Food (DAFWA) hosting an
international dairy company in a visit to the South West last week.

Page104of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.DAFWA said it regularly assists businesses that are interested in investigating trade or investment
opportunities with the WA agrifood sector, by providing information and facilitating meetings with
members of industry.
It said it had assisted an international dairy company visit and meet with producer and processing
businesses in Perth and the South West region, to gain an overview of the industry and business
opportunities.

i010010502 : Dairy Cattle Farming | i0 : Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | i0100105 : Cattle Farming |
ilsfarm : Livestock Farming
c21 : Output/Production | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FFARMW0020140924ea9p0001i

IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

Page105of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.