Where to for booming general insurance?

HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Where to for booming general insurance?

Tony Boyd
882 words
22 November 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
56
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Chanticleer

Investors who have backed Australia's two big listed general insurance companies,Insurance Australia
Group and Suncorp Group, have had a stellar run over the past five years. Under chief executive
Patrick Snowball, Suncorp's shares have doubled in value and beaten the S&P/ASX 50 total return
accumulation index by 50 per cent.

The performance at IAG under chief executive Mike Wilkins has been equally impressive.

But with both companies reporting record or near-record insurance margins, the question has to be
asked: where will the growth come from in 2015 and beyond?

General insurance is a mature industry that has shown little propensity for innovation apart from price
cutting by challenger brands.

Technology tends to be used by the big companies to streamline back-office functions or improve
customer service.

Both IAG and Suncorp have programs for cutting the cost of doing business. At Suncorp, they call it
simplification, and at IAG it is a transformation program.

But when it comes to setting out a vision for the impact of technological change, there is not much in
the way of inspiration.

Insurance companies ought to look beyond analytics, segmented pricing and brand reach toward
bigger questions such as: how is risk changing? What will the advent of driverless cars mean for
insurance? Will sensors in homes that are connected to the national broadband network transform
household contents insurance?

The big insurers have struggled with basic stuff such as the cross-selling of banking and life insurance
products to Suncorp's 9 million general insurance customers. Suncorp could snap up workers'
compensation and compulsory third-party insurance portfolios being sold by state governments as a
strategy for growth.

Snowball was the ideal executive to shake up Suncorp and put it back on a growth path. He was
fortunate that in recent years benign weather conditions have enhanced returns.
He remains keen to offer his services to the company as long as the board wants him, and he is
determined to meet a 10 per cent return-on-equity target for 2015.

But June 30, 2015 will be critical for him because on that date the final 300,000 shares in a chunk of
900,000 shares issued in 2009 will vest. That date may well coincide with a board review of
succession planning and examination of the question as to who is best to lead the company into its
next phase.

Page209of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.It is interesting that a recent analysis of Suncorp's remuneration by James Coghill at UBS found that
"Suncorp's executives have no explicit target in financial STIs to grow the business".

IAG is also facing succession planning because Wilkins has been CEO for six years. The typical
tenure of a CEO in Australia is less than six years, but top performers have tended to stay longer.
Wilkins, who had a rocky start to his tenure at IAG, is busy integrating the $1.85 billion acquisition of
the Wesfarmers insurance business and in May introduced a new operating model.
The company says it will deliver $230 million in annual synergies from the Wesfarmers deal and the
new operating model. He split the company into three divisions, with the two most likely successors
running the two operating divisions. Personal insurance is led by Andy Cornish and commercial
insurance is led by Peter Harmer.
IAG's obvious growth option is Asia. It has invested about $850 million in capital in Asia but, thanks to
tough rules imposed by the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority, it must make deductions
from its domestic capital to account for the risks in Asia.

The Asian expansion is a slow and steady game that will not deliver much in the short term. In fact,
IAG is not much interested in the big breakthrough this week allowing Australian companies to offer
compulsory third-party insurance in China. At home, IAG is losing market share to new players such
as Youi.com.au, which bills itself as Australia's fastest-growing car and home insurer. It is said
to spend more money on advertising in NSW than Suncorp.

Challenger brands have gained about 13 per cent market share in motor in the past five years. The
commercial insurance market is a cyclical business that is suffering from too much capital being
deployed. That has squeezed margins.
The purchase of Primo Group by the Brazilian companyJBS SA for $1.45 billion is timely, given it
happened so soon after the Group of 20 leaders in Brisbane talking about the advantages of greater
international trade and investment.

JBS is the world's largest meat processor. For several years, it has been building its downstream
operations around the world,including in Australia. In June this year, it just missed out on buying meat
US processing companyHillshire Brands for $US6.5 billion ($7.5 billion).

That showed the JBS financial fire power and the intent to invest and grow businesses. It will expand
the export capacities of Primo and create jobs.
The deal could be a telltale sign of a lift in M&A activity involving multinationals attracted by the
cheaper asset values caused by the lower Australian dollar.

tony.boyd@afr.com.au Twitter @TonyBoydAFR

Tony Boyd

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

mpbs : Suncorp Group Limited | nigltd : Insurance Australia Group Ltd
i82 : Insurance | ifinal : Financial Services | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk :
Banking/Credit
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020141121eabm0000a

Page210of281©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.