$500m theme park DA

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
$500m theme park DA

Errol Smith
625 words
6 August 2014
Central Coast
CENTCE
CentralCoast
3
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Wyong Shire is set to become the theme park centre of NSW after stage one plans for a $500 million
Chinese development at Warnervale were unveiled on Monday.
The owners of the proposed Chinese Cultural Theme Park have developed extensive plans for a
Chinese-themed tourist attraction on a 15ha site purchased from Wyong Council for $10 million.

Wyong mayor Doug Eaton received plans which will form part of the Development Application for the
first stage of the park – the thanksgiving Temple – which includes three main buildings and statues of
White-robed Guanyin and Thousand-hand Guanyin.
Due to open in stages from the end of 2015, if approved, the theme park will have 12 main sections
including the Meridian Gate, thanksgiving Temple, Zheng He’s Treasure Ship, arts and crafts
workshop, Spring Festival Square and Panda Paradise.
The park, to be called Chappypie China Time, aims to integrate Chinese culture, nature and spirit.

Visitors will enter via The Red Gate and through to the Forbidden City, with a flying golden dragon
winding its way through the park.

A variety of entertainment, cultural, accommodation and retail areas are included such as a history of
calligraphy, a theatre for traditional drama and musical performances, Chinese landscape gardens,
and a panorama of Chinese history.
Other features include: ■ Small laneways leading to various arts and handicrafts displays, Chinese
food and teahouses; ■ A river flowing throughout the park with traditional dragon boats that will pass
under bridges and willow trees; and ■ A giant ship which will be both a ride and a celebration of shared
maritime history between Australia and China.

Original plans to include a giant golden Buddha as a central feature have been scrapped.
CHINESE FAITH Council sold the land, which is adjacent to the Warnervale Airport, to the
Australia-China Theme Park Pty Ltd in 2012.
CEO of Australia-China Theme Park Bruce Zhong said the Mayor of Wyong was willing to back his
company when no one else would.
“The Mayor understands Chinese culture and the need for local government involve-ment in terms of
attracting Chinese investment and now the results are in for everyone to see,” he said.
Mayor delighted by park’s potential Mayor Doug Eaton said it was incredibly exciting to get to the stage
of lodging a Development Application and to see the sheer scale of the project.

Page192of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“I’ve truly never seen anything like this before – it’s going to blow people away when they watch the
video and get a sense of how big and imaginative this concept really is and what it can do in terms of
tourism for our shire,” he said.
“The developers have long been telling us that this theme park will be up there with the Opera House
and Sydney Harbour Bridge in terms of tourist attractions and I’ve got to hand it to them – it’s absolutely
in that category.
“I think what you see today is just the beginning. Wyong Shire is now set to become the theme park
centre of NSW.” The mayor said that the project represented an incredible boost for the shire’s tourism
and economic development and would not only create employment but have a flow-on effect to local
retailers and the hospitality sector.
AT A GLANCE Inbound Chinese tourism to Australia has steadily increased in the past few years, with
700,000 tourists spending more than $4 billion in 2012, according to a report by Tourism
Australia.WithChinese tourism growing by an average of 20 per cent each year, Destination NSW’s
China Tourism Strategy predicts that the value of Chinese inbound tourism to NSW will almost double
by 2020, becoming NSW’s largest international market.

NS
RE

PUB
AN

gtour : Travel | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle
china : China | austr : Australia | nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz
: Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document CENTCE0020140805ea860002y

Page193of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.