Chinese -backed developers swooping on Footscray sites

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Chinese-backed developers swooping on Footscray sites

Simon Johanson
452 words
24 September 2014
The Age
AGEE
First
26
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

The heat in Melbourne's land market has spread west, with Chinese-backed developers snapping up
sites in Footscray, with more sales expected.

Martyn Toogood's Devcorp Vic hopes to tap strong offshore appetite for development sites by offering
a prime site at 2 Hopkins Street, which has permits for four towers between 16 and 24 storeys high.
Sites west of the Maribyrnong River have seen less turnover than those in the CBD and inner east, but
were nevertheless keenly sought.

Devcorp's 9000-square-metre riverfront block in the suburb's Joseph Road Precinct, an area
designated by the state government to be rejuvenated with high-density housing, may fetch up to $25
million in today's heated property market, agents estimate. Savills Australia's Julian Heatherich,
Clinton Baxter and Nick Peden have been appointed as agents.

The planned towers, set less than 100 metres from the water's edge, caused considerable controversy
when approved by Planning Minister Matthew Guy last year because they will overshadow the
Maribyrnong River.

Local councillors claimed Mr Guy had applied one rule restricting building heights along the Yarra
River's leafy eastern banks while taking a more laissez-faire approach to Maribyrnong in the west.

The angular glass structures designed by Plus Architecture for Devcorp's block will be the second
site-with-permit offered for sale in the immediate neighbourhood recently. Places Victoria last year
offloaded the old Le Mans Toyota dealership at 8 Hopkins Street for $18.7 million to a holding
company controlled by Chinese-born Guohua Liang.

About the same time but a little further afield, the former four-hectare Kinnears Rope Factory at
124-188 Ballarat Road was sold by AXF Group property tycoon Richard Gu to a Chinese-backed
development company, reportedly for $60 million.
Chinese developers have also shown interest in another huge development site, De Group's
Yarraville Gardens development at the former Bradmill denim factory in Francis Street. It has price
expectations about $120 million but has so far failed to sell.
A development site at 140-142 Cotham Road in Kew sold this week to a Chinese-based private
developer for $7.6 million, Savill Australia's Jesse Radisich said.

The two-storey building came with a permit for 33 apartments and 640 square metres of retail space.
And north of the city, another Chinese developer has bought a vacant site next to the future town
centre of the planned Aurora Estate in Epping. The 2.5 hectares sold for $5 million to the purchaser,
who had teamed up with a local group called Developers Direct, CBRE's Jamus Campbell said.

Page177of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

PUB
AN

austr : Australia | china : China | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AGEE000020140923ea9o00052

Page178of221©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.