OPEC Buffeted by U.S. Shale Gale -- Barron's Asia

HD
BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

OPEC Buffeted by U.S. Shale Gale -- Barron's Asia

By Robert Guy
1,461 words
28 November 2014
15:16
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2014, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

In the 1987 documentary Trader legendary hedge fund manager Paul Tudor Jones is seen aggressively
shorting the equivalent of four tankers of oil ahead of a meeting of the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries at which a production cut was supposed to be agreed.

Having barked frantically at his broker over the speaker-phone to "do it, do it, do it!", Jones gives viewers
a rare insight into his thinking on positioning oil trades ahead of meetings of the oil cartel.

"My whole feeling is that anytime you try to get 13 people to agree to anything, and I have a chance to
take a position on it, wild horses couldn't keep from betting against them succeeding in that."

The number of OPEC nations may have changed -- there are now 12 members -- but the advice seems
as sage today as it did back in the 1980s.

As it did back then, OPEC members gathered at Thursday's meeting failed to deliver a production cut
that would have stemmed the tsunami of oil flooding global markets. There had been very modest
expectations the cartel's heavyweight producers -- Saudi Arabia and Kuwait -- may be prepared to show
leadership by approving a group wide production cut in the wake of oil prices plumbing four-year lows.
No deal! Rebuffing calls from Venezuela to cut production, the cartel decided to maintain its 30 million
barrel a day production ceiling.
The response was unsurprisingly brutal. Brent oil prices tumbled close to 7% to a fresh four-year low of
$72.58 a barrel. It was the biggest one-day percentage drop since May 2011. The best number to
express the collective pain of oil producers across the globe is 50.3% -- that's the decline in the oil price
since its peak of $146 a barrel in July 2008. That's gotta hurt.
Once feared as the setter of global oil prices, OPEC now risks looking like a paper tiger. The U.S. 'shale
gale' has rocked the cartel's Viennese casbah, leaving OPEC looking defenseless against a supply
onslaught from U.S. rivals assaulting their long-held dominance over global oil prices. Blame it on those
fracking Americans! Fracking technology has encouraged an outbreak of drilling, with new wells
peppering the U.S. as energy companies sought to cash in on the geological bounty offered by shale oil
and 'wet' shale gas. Once an also-ran in the global oil game, the shale revolution has seen the U.S
emerge, Lazarus-like, as a resurgent energy super-power with daily crude production of around nine
million barrels a day.

The problem with revolutions is that they're bad news for those who hold the reins of power. OPEC is the
ancien regime and the shale revolution has heralded the arrival of a new order. Well, that's the view of
shale boosters like Citi's commodities team who earlier this month declared the rise of the U.S. as an
energy superpower "is poised to usher in disruptive changes to global oil markets, trade and
investment". Yeah, you don't say.

Not that OPEC is taking the new order lying down. The cartel is playing hardball with its decision to
maintain production at full bore. The strategy is to keep prices low, squeeze the margins of upstart
competitors, and ensure the cartel's share of the global oil market is maintained. Given much of the U.S.
shale revolution has been built on a foundation of high oil prices and cheap debt, pulling out one of the
pillars by driving oil prices lower may just be crazy enough to work.

Page28of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.But an OPEC 'victory' may be a Phyrric victory as lower oil prices will inflict collateral damage on the
national budgets of those OPEC members who need high oil prices to underwrite government spending.
Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, whose coffers are swollen by decades of wealth transfer from the oil guzzling
West, have the fiscal muscle to ride out the real-time experiment in game theory. Who will blink first?
OPEC may re-establish its street cred as the oil price setter if it can eviscerate some of the new
competition, but it may come at the cost of eating its own.
The impact of lower oil prices are reverberating well beyond U.S. shale plays. At $80 a barrel, the
aggregate cashflows of the world's 50 biggest oil and gas companies are 18% below 2013 capex levels,
according to Bernstein Research. This is the first time this has occurred in 20 years. Common sense
would suggest this isn't sustainable. But common sense seems in short supply in global commodity
markets currently, as producers of oil, iron ore and thermal coal keep the pedal to the metal and seem
intent on elbowing each other out of the way in the race to the bottom. It's market share or bust!
The bravado of oil producers may be causing self-inflicted wounds, but the carnage is being welcomed
by energy importing nations. In Asia, lower oil prices are providing some relief to consumers, while also
providing policymakers with additional flexibility to cut interest rates should the trajectory of growth start
to turn down. The Reserve Bank of Australia, which holds its monthly board meeting next week, noted in
the minutes from its last meeting that the "noticeable" fall in oil prices would support growth in energy
importing countries.
China, the world's second largest oil consumer, is set to reap the benefits of lower oil prices. The North
Asian giant revealed last week that it held 91 million barrels in its nascent development of a strategic
petroleum reserve. While equal to a mere two weeks of oil imports, the world's second largest economy
is expected to move quickly to exploit weak oil prices with additional purchases, as it looks to
accumulate a crude inventory equal to 90 days of imports by 2020. While purchases by Beijing may
provide some support to the oil market, China's black-box approach to decision making means investors
will be left groping in the dark trying to divine the size and velocity of buying.
Not that the downward spiral of oil prices is all good news for Asia. Macquarie analysts this week argued
that lower oil prices could be a poisoned chalice for Asia. Their rationale is that cheaper oil could
encourage greater consumption, undermine attempts to increase energy efficiency and combat
pollution.
There is no doubt Asian energy producers have become collateral damage from the showdown between
the U.S. industry and OPEC. Lower oil prices are not great news for large Asian producers like China's
CNOOC (0883.HK) and PetroChina (0857.HK). However, but Macquarie gives the nod to CNOOC
based on its 16% return on equity, and the fact that forecast double digit production growth in 2015
should take some of the sting out of the weak price environment. The broker also calculates that
PetroChina should be able to generate a positive free cash flow yield -- or free cash flow divided by the
share price -- even if oil prices fall to $50 a barrel. Bernstein argues that PetroChina and Sinopec would
be loss making at $70 a barrel.

Their pain is also likely to be felt Down Under, with the economics of Australia's massive expansion into
liquefied natural gas coming under question in the new oil price environment. Australia is set to emerge
as the world's biggest LNG producer by the end of the decade, but project backers have been caught in
a pincer move between falling oil prices -- which are used to benchmark long term contracts with Asian
customers -- and the rise of rival gas supplies from the U.S. Origin Energy (ORG.AU) was down more
than 6% in early afternoon trading in Sydney on Friday, while Santos (STO.AU) had been hammered
nearly 10% lower. Both companies are backing LNG projects in Queensland that use coal seam gas,
but which have been dogged by cost fears.

While the long term demand for LNG is expected to be robust, Bernstein favors LNG exposed plays like
Australia's Oil Search (OSH.AU) which has LNG operations in Papua New Guinea, and Japan's Inpex
(1605.JP) which is building a LNG project in Australia's Northern Territory. Bernstein raised its target
price on Inpex earlier this week, arguing there may be 40% upside for the stock as the risks from the
Ichthys project recede.

---

Comments? E-mail us at robert.guy@barrons.com

---

Comments? E-mail us at asiaeditors@barrons.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

Page29of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.November 27, 2014 23:16 ET (04:16 GMT)

CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

opexpc : Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries
ifrack : Fracking | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | imulti : Multiutilities | i1 : Energy | ibasicm : Basic
Materials/Resources | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction | imet : Mining/Quarrying | iutil : Utilities
mcroil : Crude Oil Markets | cnatrd : Natural Reserves/Resources Discovery | ccat : Corporate/Industrial
News | ncmac : Commodities Asset Class News | nenac : Energy Asset Class News | neqac : Equities
Asset Class News | nfiac : Fixed Income Asset Class News | c24 : Capacity/Facilities | m14 : Commodity
Markets | m143 : Energy Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types |
nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | kuwait : Kuwait | papng : Papua New Guinea | saarab : Saudi Arabia |
usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS
Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | gulfstz : Persian Gulf Region | meastz : Middle East | namz : North
America | pacisz : Pacific Islands | wasiaz : Western Asia
Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Document DJDN000020141128eabs000bu

Page30of244©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.