Tassie set for trade boom

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Lifestyle
Tassie set for trade boom

409 words
18 November 2014
Hobart Mercury
MRCURY
Hobart
4
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved

FROM PAGE 1 As revealed by the Sunday Tasmanian, dairy farmers, seafood exporters, wine
makers, beef farmers, woolgrowers and orchardists are the big winners from the deal, which could
triple the amount of produce exported to China each year.
Shoppers are likely to see discounts on Chinese clothing, shoes, carpets, cars, car parts and tinned
fruit.

But with our tariffs set at a relatively modest 5 per cent, and many manufactured goods imported into
Australia by foreign companies, major discounts are unlikely.

President Xi and Prime Minister Tony Abbott signed the deal in Canberra yesterday afternoon,
signalling a new era of economic co-operation.
It will drive a minimum of $18 billion in extra revenue into the Australian economy over the next
decade.

Tourism operators, hoteliers, aged care providers and lawyers also will be givenmore freedom to
work and run businesses in China.
The trade deal will remove taxes adding up to 40 per cent on to the cost of Australian goods sold in
China, soChinese buyers will be able to afford more Australian products such as crayfish, table
grapes, oranges, almonds and beef. The rush of orders should see increased production in Australia
and the creation of thousands of new jobs.

Tariffs on Australian mining exports also will be lifted.
Australia is making it even easier for Chinese investment. Private companies will be able to invest in
projects worth up to $1 billion without triggering a Foreign Investment Review Board inquiry.
They will be able to buy, with a review, agricultural land worth up to $15 million and agricultural
businesses worth up to $53 million.
The deal was formalised on the day TasInvest delegates visited two dairy farms in northern
Tasmania. Some visited the Cressy property Rosemount while others went to the Ashgrove
Tasmanian Farm at Elizabeth Town.
Beyond Australia representative Danny Bai said Australian dairy products were well regarded in
China.

“They are clean and reliable in both quality and continuity of supply and there is a friendly
relationship between traders,’’ he said.
Mr Bai, an importer and exporter, said there were further potential markets in China. “We are looking
for more dairy suppliers,” he said.

Page130of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Rosemount owners Rob and Jo Bradley milk 770 cows on 277ha of irrigated land near Cressy. The
trade deal is likely to help their operation. “If we get one the same as New Zealand, I’ll be very
happy,’’ Mr Bradley said.with ELLEN WHINNETT

i010010502 : Dairy Cattle Farming | i0 : Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | i0100105 : Cattle Farming |
ilsfarm : Livestock Farming
gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | china : China | tasman : Tasmania | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document MRCURY0020141117eabi0000o

IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

Page131of253©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.