More questions over Leung’s UGL deal

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

City News
More questions over Leung’s UGL deal

Benjamin Robertson and Joyce Ng
792 words
15 October 2014
South China Morning Post
SCMP
1
1
English
(c) 2014 South China Morning Post Publishers Limited, Hong Kong. All rights reserved.

On the same day Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying signed a £4 million (HK$50 million) deal as part
of his former company’s £77.5 million sale to listed Australian engineering firm UGL, a second
offer arrived to buy the company that exceeded UGL’s bid by about £90 million.
The abandonment of the higher bid – purportedly from China – shocked British investors, Stephen
Webster, shareholder and ex-director of Leung’s former company DTZ, told the South China
Morning Post.

“As shareholders, we felt there were a number of other options that should have been considered
but obviously were not,” said Webster, who left DTZ in 2009, two years before UGL’s acquisition of
the firm.
Webster told the Post yesterday that the DTZ board and its administrator at the time, Ernst & Young,
should have explored a management buyout, corporate restructure, or a sale to a higher bidder.

The revelation of the second bid is likely to raise questions about Leung’s conduct in 2011 in his
final days as a DTZ director, and in particular, whether he gave impartial advice on the second
offer’s merits given that he stood to gain HK$50 million if the UGL sale went through.

UGL eventually bought London-listed DTZ for £77.5 million in a deal that wiped out both
shareholders and unsecured creditors, and required British-taxpayer-backed bank RBS to take a 30
per cent loss on a £110 million loan to the troubled real estate consultancy.
Leung has faced fresh calls to resign from his role as Hong Kong’s leader since Fairfax Media last
week revealed the secret HK$50 million deal between him and UGL, which included an additional
agreement for him to serve as an adviser to UGL “from time to time”.

Leung has said this was a resignation arrangement for him and a standard business practice of
non-competition deals. But politicians and some lawyers have said he should not have agreed to
provide paid service to a commercial entity while serving as the city’s chief executive.

According to an Ernst & Young report, now filed at Companies House in London, a “confidential
bidder” had on December 2 offered to inject £48.8 million in new equity into DTZ, and to refinance
existing loans in exchange for a 50.1 per cent stake in the firm. The deal was valued at 18 pence
per share.
As a board member and chairman of DTZ’s lucrative Asia-Pacific operations, Leung held 8.6 million
shares in April 2011, according to DTZ’s annual report, valuing his stake at £1.54 million if the
second offer was successful.

Leung would not say if he welcomed the new suitor. In an email response to the Post, Leung’s office
said “the decision to sell DTZ was a decision made by DTZ board of directors”.

Page193of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Ernst & Young’s report said the new offer would have taken eight weeks to complete and it was
decided there was “insufficient time” given DTZ’s “cash flow position” and “lack of further funding”
from RBS.
The bidder was reported in the Chinese press to be Tianjin Innovation Financial Investment
Company, although the Post has been unable to reach it for confirmation. The firm is a Chinese
state-owned enterprise set up in 2008 to take charge of the planning and development of a new
financial district in Tianjin city, according to the company’s website.
A 2012 report by mainland newspaper China Business News quoted a source as saying the firm
“was unfairly treated” and that it could not remit money overseas at the time because of the
mainland policy of foreign exchange control.
On November 24, 2011, Leung announced his resignation from DTZ’s board to stand as a
candidate in Hong Kong’s chief executive election. His resignation took effect on December 4.

On December 2, Leung signed an agreement with UGL stipulating that he would receive £4 million
in two instalments in 2012 and last year should the UGL bid prove successful. UGL and Leung said
the money was to prevent him from forming or joining a rival firm within two years.

The city’s Independent Commission Against Corruption and the Australian Federal Police are
evaluating the need to investigate the matter after receiving complaints from politicians.

Local lawmaker Kenneth Leung Kai-cheong, who filed a complaint with Britain’s Listing Authority
asking it to check if DTZ and Leung had complied with listing and corporate directorship rules, said it
“went against common sense” that DTZ would pass up the rival bid, which offered more money and
a “better future” for its employees.

uncont : UGL Ltd.
icre : Real Estate/Construction
npag : Page-One Stories | ncat : Content Types
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
South China Morning Post Publishers Limited
Document SCMP000020141014eaaf0004q

CO
IN
NS
RE

PUB
AN

Page194of282©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.