Shares recover from low day

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Market Wrap
Shares recover from low day

Vesna Poljak
688 words
18 January 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
41
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

The Australian sharemarket finished the week barely changed, down 0.1 per cent in spite of
featuring the worst one-day fall since September , 2013.
Shares clawed back Tuesday's 1.5 per cent loss, buoyed by renewed interest in mining stocks.

The S&P/ASX 200 Index closed at 5305.9 points on Friday, a fall of 3.2 points or 0.06 per cent for
the session.

The benchmark has started the year in subdued fashion and Australian stocks are down 0.9 per cent
since the beginning of January.
Paladin Energy posted a 25 per cent surge in value in the past five days, making it the best
performer in the ASX 200. The miner achieved important debt refinancing on African mines over the
period, persuading investors it is better placed to meet its repayments. The stock closed up 7¢ at
56¢.
OZ Minerals was another outperformer, ahead 16.5 per cent. The company delivered an upbeat
production report which beat expectations and put the squeeze on short sellers who had bet its
shares would decline.Sales down

Dragging down the index over the week was Super Retail Group, the operator of Rebel, and Ray's
Outdoors, which reported weak sales numbers for the first half including the critical Christmas retail
period. The shares slumped 16.7 per cent to close at $10.79.

Fellow consumer discretionary retailer JB Hi-Fi fared little better, down 9.1 per cent for the week.

Widespread selling on the bourse on Tuesday threatened to derail a passive start to the year when
stocks shed $24 billion because the corporate reporting season in the United States would yield
poor results and comments from a Federal Reserve official that alluded to a hawkish outlook for
monetary policy.

Anticipating and reacting to the Fed's actions was the dominant driver of global markets in 2013 and
this year will likely be no different, said Paul Bloxham, HSBC chief economist.

"I still think the big story for 2014 is going to be watching the Fed, because it has implications for
bond markets [and] for equity markets for what's happening with currencies," he said.

"We had a practice run at tapering in 2013 and what we saw is it can have some pretty massive
implications for a whole set of emerging economies that rely on foreign capital."

Mr Bloxham was referencing the behaviour of markets last May when the Fed dropped its first hint of
a reduction in its $US3 trillion-plus ($3.4 trillion) quantitative easing program.

Page40of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.As expectations of a change in policy mounted, markets seized up and foreign capital made a flash
exit from developing economies.US dominant
"It's still the case that US financial developments dominate financial markets. I suspect China is
going to be very much in focus as well, they look as though they're in the process of reforming their
economy in a whole range of areas and that will probably be something that financial markets will
respond to," he said.

Consumer discretionary stocks were the weakest performing group on the ASX 200 over the past
fortnight, shedding 2.5 per cent.

They were among the biggest winners of 2013 when interest rates sat at record lows, and they face
the threat of policy tightening in 2014 as economies recover.

On Wednesday the World Bank upgraded its growth outlook for the global economy to 3.2 per cent,
up from 2.4 per cent in 2013.

The World Bank too is betting the Fed will continue to unwind its stimulus program over the course
of the year.

In the week ahead, the Reserve Bank of Australia will release its December quarter inflation data
which could reveal for the first time, evidence that the Australian dollar is pushing up prices in areas
such as petrol.

Mr Bloxham also highlighted that fiscal policy will play a greater role in the economy this year.

"One of the key risks to this year is fiscal policy," he said, attributing greater importance to the
Federal budget due in May.

golpla : OZ Minerals Limited | palrs : Paladin Energy Limited
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | iuran :
Uranium Ore Mining
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140117ea1i00013

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

Page41of297©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.