Chatter all talk, steel giant set to stick by Sandfire

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Chatter all talk, steel giant set to stick by Sandfire

431 words
31 March 2014
The West Australian
TWAU
First
1
English
(c) 2014, West Australian Newspapers Limited

It’s the eve of a new quarter, which means it must be time for another round of speculation over the
sale of POSCO’s 15 per cent stake in Sandfire Resources.
The latest round of chatter, wafting over the ocean from Hong Kong’s Mines and Money conference
last week, appears to have been kicked off with the change of management at the Korean steelmaker,
and after comments by incoming chief executive Kwon Oh-joon at the company’s annual meeting this
month that his leadership would mark a break with POSCO’s previous diversification strategy in order
to focus on its core business in steel.

But with copper again on the nose with investors, and Sandfire trading below $6 for much of this
month, the timing seems a little off for an imminent sale.

The latest rumours, which started swirling late last week, appear to emanate from speculation in the
Korean press that POSCO could transfer its stake, worth about $135 million at Friday’s close, into
the natural resources private equity fund POSCO set up in late 2012.

The transfer could make some sense if POSCO was looking for an easy way to trickle out shares in a
selldown without taking the discount a block trade might require.

But, as with the last time, the rumours appear to be little more than that, according to Sandfire boss
Karl Simich.

Simich says his contacts at POSCO assured him late last week they had made no move to offload its
stake. Although he’s got little doubt POSCO will eventually move to exit Sandfire, Simich says he’s
had little indication there’s a block trade imminent.
What could make more sense for POSCO is the sale of its 24.5 per cent stake in Aquila Resources’
Australian Premium Iron joint venture with AMCI in the West Pilbara.

The project is effectively on ice and both Aquila and Hans Mende’s AMCI have turned their focus to
their respective coal projects. With POSCO’s Pilbara focus firmly on progress at Gina Rinehart’s Roy
Hill project, and the Korean company unlikely to want to extend its balance sheet further in the short
term, an exit from the joint venture seems more likely than a Sandfire sale.
And after China’s Baosteel group spent a bit of time and money buying itself up to a sliver under 20
per cent of the Aquila register late last year, there’s what could be an interested party sitting
conveniently in the wings.

CO
IN

NS

sanfir : Sandfire Resources Ltd | pohn : Posco Co
i22 : Primary Metals | i221 : Iron/Steel/Ferroalloys | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet :
Mining/Quarrying | isteel : Steel Production
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News

Page66of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
West Australian Newspapers Limited
Document TWAU000020140330ea3v00006

Page67of311©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.