Towers part of free-trade plan

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

News
Towers part of free-trade plan

SOPHIE KESTEVEN sophie.kesteven@news.com.au
574 words
31 October 2014
Northern Miner
NORMIN
NorthernMiner
3
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

A FREE-TRADE agreement between China and Australia could be one step closer, following a visit from
a Chinese delegation to North Queensland.
The Chinese delegation visited Charters Towers along with Trade Investment Queensland and Meat
and Livestock Australia last week as part of a tour of Australian beef cattle regions.

“The delegation of high level Chinese officials were looking at Australia’s cattle registration system and
the traceability of our cattle from birth to abattoir,” Charters Towers Regional Council Mayor Frank
Beveridge.
“This visit was not on investment, but was part of a wider discussion on the Chinese Australian
Free-Trade Investment.” Cr Beveridge said the delegation visited various cattle properties as well as the
Dalrymple Saleyards.

He said there are strong hopes an agreement will be reached sooner rather than later.

“They have visited research centres in North Queensland, port facilities as well as cattle stations to form
an opinion on our future export industry into China,” he said.

Cr Beveridge said if the FTA agreement was to go ahead, any rural town linked to the grazing industry
would have huge flow on benefits, as one of the biggest challenges for rural and regional Australia is not
having enough competition for our agricultural products.

Charters Towers Regional Council CEO Mark Crawley said before visiting Charters Towers, the
delegation visited the quarantine depot at the Townsville Port.

“They are potentially looking at live export cattle and looking at the quarantine side of things,” he said.

“I think they now have a better understanding of how the animals in North Queensland are tracked and
looked after during the time they are actually on the ground.” National Farmers Federation president
Brent Finlay said an FTA with China is a wonderful opportunity not only for the northern beef industry but
for the whole of Australian agriculture.
“A good trade agreement, a good trade outcome to China will define agriculture for the next 20 years,”
Mr Finlay said.
“I have just been to China and the interest in buying red meat — beef and lamb from Australia — it was
just exciting.” Mr Finlay said there are a lot of Chinese delegations in Australia and part of those tours
are about finding the right business partners.

“With all these opportunities in front of us, it is really important that we grab those opportunities as
Australian agriculture,” he said.

Page212of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“Because all our competitors around the world, they see the same opportunity. So we have to be smart,
clever and quick but most of all we need as a basis, a really good trade agreement with China,” Mr
Finlay said.

Earlier this month The Australian reported the debate about where the opportunities lie for Australia in
the Asian food boom — where an affluent middle class of three billion will be looking to buy more meat
and dairy products and better-quality food by 2030 — has matured in the past year.
Beef sales to China and the US are booming, the live cattle trade is set for its biggest year ever after
Indonesia ordered a record 264,000 head in the next three months.Agriculture Minister Barnaby Joyce
conducted a tour to China where the focus has shifted to Australia as a food bowl — or “delicatessen” as
those in government call it — supplying Asia’s most wealthy, discerning buyers with premium,
high-value, safe and traceable food.

CO
IN

NS

RE

mtlvau : Meat & Livestock Australia Limited
i412 : Animal Slaughtering/Processing | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp : Consumer Goods | ifood :
Food Products | i0 : Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | ilsfarm : Livestock Farming
c312 : External Markets | mlvstk : Livestock/Meat Markets | c31 : Marketing/Markets | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | m14 : Commodity Markets | m141 : Agricultural Commodity Markets | mcat :
Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion
Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

PUB News Ltd.
AN

Document NORMIN0020141031eaav0000o

Page213of354©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.