txt tuesday

News

SE
HD txt tuesday
WC 2,017 words
PD
4 March 2014
SN
Townsville Bulletin
SC
TOWNBU
ED
Townsville
PG 14
LA
CY
LP

English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

TD

I love My Kitchen Rules and no other cooking show with their timeslot comes near it ... but for crying out
loud ‘yeahh’ can that other Irish chef stop trying to take over the show ‘yeaah’. It’s what has made MKR
such a good show. It’s about the contestants and their personalities that make, not having to shove these
‘big name’ chefs take over ... spaceman northward I’m but a chick with an opinion about ‘my’ local
women’s centre so I hope I get a say as many other wmn feel the same. All females who genuinely need
help should be entitled to food vouchers n financial assistance but sadly it appears most goes to the same
sorts who spend their money on grog or drugs then wander in each week (often leaving agro drunk men
outside the centre) as they abuse funds that would be better given to genuinely needy women n kids!
Genuine miss out time n again in my observation .. this is my opinion. I am a woman. Cass Finally got my
NBN boxes connected (waiting since Nov.

2013) lets hope telstra can connect by the end of the month ... Awaiting fast internet in South Tville I would
like to say a huge thank you to the couple that called an ambulance for me in the early hours of Saturday
morning after I come a gutza off my push bike on Dean Street. Things could have gone very bad for me if
you hadn’t have come back for me. I would love to have a meal with you guys one day when I can actually
eat. Kim.V Rosie, Ergon has outsourced its meter reading to private contractors now and it seems that’s
where the price rise comes in. LNP govt wants to sell Ergon entirely, if that happens your bill will be bigger
still. Check out the history of this in Victoria. Not a pretty picture. Ivy, Dgun While I agree with some of the
views expressed by L R Sullivan TB 3/3/14 I do not think multiculturalism has failed completely in
Australia. I am from Hungary and now an Aussie. Chinese Indians Greeks etc came to this wonderful
country and assimilated. Unfortunately Islam is not compatible with our values and I cannot see the
Muslim communities embracing our values and traditions. They want Sharia law to be used exclusively in
their enclaves. That is not compatible with becoming an Aussie. This is the problem in Europe and that is
why European leaders have stated that multicultarism does not work. Tommy 4810 How come youi cancel
insurance in kirwan no floods or trees but reinsure on the beach at bushland beach? Unhappy g kirwan Mr
Dempsey: Fact: Keelty review says fire communication centre will close (per report TVL Bully 24/02/14).
Fact. I am not part of UFU & once again 3 local MP’s silent on the issue of cuts to local services. No
mention or answer to loss of free baby capsule fitting for QAS. My msg: Stop the cuts to local services!
Aaron H. 4815 Hoping that patrons to 1st Cowboys game have a better night than our last (& final) game
where a g’dad with 2 kids under 10 was using ‘f’ & ‘c’ words in his abuse of ref & opposition then
threatened me when I asked him to stop swearing with “if you don’t like it p**s off”. Another screaming at
c’boys players to “rip his head off” & “break his legs”. Meanwhile a 3rd threatened my wife (in her
cowboy’s gear) for applauding a good try by the opposition. All were over 50s. All were (redneck) cowboys
supporters. All in western stands on halfway. Great sportsmanship. GC Mt Low Tribal clans, on the rise,
courts & police, can’t/won’t handle it. Maybe, maybe not, but, how long will it b, until the community do, we
as a community r fed up with all the s..t that these ‘lovely’ adolescents, cause. MM. Oak Valley Kate
Higgins Mon We’ve said it b4 & will again that we feel u r under represented in the Bulletin & not just
because of yr thorough understanding of attitudes & issues affecting women. But it is such a battle up
here where entrenched archaic male attitudes flourish. Cyberspace is promoting a further backward slide
in stereotyping & the commodification of fmles. And no-one wants women to voice the utter despair this is
causing. Men can txt of ‘decent women’. Our turn? Sonya Kate, TB 3/3/14 — Equal pay for women is a
well known con. In days of yore, men were men and did a hard day’s work for a full day’s pay, loading
sacks of wheat at 112 lbs or 1 cwt. In the pansy world of today, the lifting restriction is 25kg or 55 lbs, a

Page249of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.bludge; that is a productivity loss of 60%. Yet Kate proudly states woman are not gold diggers, then what
is it when you’re paying top dollar for someone who can’t pull their weight? Paul Dillon, Kirwan This latest
cyclone update brought to you by coles and Woolies. Please panic buy now. Give us a break. bill kirwan
Mike Abraham, nothin a few crab pot won’t fix. Jacko Kirwan Looking forward to seeing Maureen and
Daryl and Co. Up at Blue Water playing their Professional style of music soon ... Jacob ... BL.Wat Is the
Bully’s cartoonist a Labor supporter? They all seem to contain a blatant left wing message. George Kirwan
How Qld rail doesn’t get fined for not covering their loads, dropping crap all through the intersections Re:
Rosie currajong & Ergon bill ... How else do you expect them to pay Ian mcloud $700,000 p/a plus bonus.
Privatisation will put prices up higher and customer service will go down. Campbell Newman needs to be
fired Brad Archer ... you have my vote! Patricia H.P. 4812 Brad Archer still beating his drum over
separation, the petition garnered a mere handfull of signatures. Give it a rest Brad. WW C/jong I hope
before pool owners get charged for water going down sewerage that TCC check all pools, I have a pool
and my backwash water goes around my yard not down the sewer. BL Kelso Same drama from the Dept
of Meteorology again giving us landfall of the new low 4-5 days out. It was just sth of Innisfail last time,
crossed just nth of Bowen, this one nth of Innisfail. For crying out loud, leave predicted landfall till 24hrs
out and a clear picture. WW C/jong For politicians, “listening tour” is code for selling decisions they have
already made. This time will be no different. Dave@bushybeach After decades of taxpayers feeding the
bottomless pit of mismanaged Aust. manufacturing & icons, also a lot of help from militant union demands
the chooks are coming home to roost. We reap what we sow. Wayne 48I2 To all texters with problems
with Ergon: write/text 2 Ergon. Paper readers cant help u! Del,gver To BT kirwan, I feel I really have to
come to the defence of Mr Kahn here, you have the wrong end of the stick, I don’t believe he is holding
out for a massive payout from Stockland, he stated that where he is now residing, is his family home,
which more than likely was there, before Stockland was even established on that site, the issue here, is
sentimentality, which I can well identify with, because 55 years ago, I lost my family home, to business
interests. Why do a lot of Australians only see things in monetary terms, these days? D.Bilton w/end Mr
Khan, take my 4 bed 2 storey house with pool in hermit park, I will take your house and sell it to stockland
for 1.5 mill. We will both be happy, at least me anyway, MP 4812 Mick from Ross Island, I know another
local security company that tendered for 1300smiles contract. The reason they were more expensive is
because they pay between $2 & $12/hr /guard more than the Brissy company working on an old EBA. 80
guards x higher rate, higher super and higher wages tax. Yes that’s fair. Like to see if you feel the same
when there’s no local companies left and you’re earning less than award?

The majority wanted Campbell Newman to fix Qld financial problems but few are happy with whatever he
does. Damned if he does damned if he doesn’t. Remember the alternative — Labor will bankrupt the state
if they get back in “control”. AK4814 KF Kelso. If that is the case, then you would think the four young kids
who died in the insulation debacle should have been also under the protection of the then Govt who set it
up. Ron Kelso Just wanted to say huge thank you to the family in the runabout who went out of their way
to bring myself and a water filled kayak back to Bushy beach on Sunday, I had no hope of getting back to
shore on my own and owe a big debt of gratitude Great win to the Fire. Watch out Bendigo we’re coming
to get you. Awesome game girls. Granny 4812 Way to go Townsville Fire. What an awesome game and
an even tremendous result. All the best for the Grand Final. I’ll even give up Sundays footy to cheers you
girls on from the couch ... pb83 b’gardens Congratulations to the Fire and hope Bendigo can be downed
next — go Fire we are very proud of u all. Meg. Pimlico Fire up Townsville Fire up. Grand final hear we
come. Our turn to revenge the grand final. This is our year. Don Wlg Congratulations to the Fire what a
great game and win. One to go, don’t make me have to bare my bum again this year! Please! You can do
it. Frank nth ward Now it’s military tourism from the “kipper”. What happened to the cruise ship market that
was going to bring all the dollars to the Ville oh and don’t forget the events and conferences. We don’t
have enough “rooms” for any increase in that market. What is TEL trying to pull here!!! My rates at work?
Old fella 4810 I have come to the obvious conclusion that the roll out of the NBN will be a disaster. I had 4
people for 2 days to install it bob castle hill Can anyone tell me of any insurance options available to
diabetics please. Anything at all please? Would appreciate it. Klm 4818 Oh come on Ron (Kelso), while
the Newman Govt was copping heaps from the legal profession, when de Jersey wasn’t being mute, he
was supportive of Can’t Do’s policies. In Newman’s own words, he is a “perfect fit”. You’ve been around
long enough Ron 2 understand “pollie talk”. Pedro Cranbrook Here’s a thought ... NZ feels our flags are
too similar. Why not replace Union Jack on our flag with our Coat of Arms. Our cricketers kiss it on their
Baggy Greens when celebrating. It is more a symbol of Australia than Union Jack, or put Union Jack in
bottom corner. John N, m’burra Gorgeous day at Lake Paluma Sunday. This public road should be open
‘all’ the time, not by exception. TSV Council not pulling its weight for recreation or tourism OMG! What’s
happened to Keith Urban? He use to be ‘Hot’ now he is not. Connie, Kirwan A big congratulations to the
Fire team. What an inspirational group of young women stepping up and being great role models. Go get
them in Bendigo I know you can do it. Nicole 4818Twins from The Block are sore losers, don’t bag Kyal &
Karas beautiful bathroom, they weren’t the judges, get off your pedestal. Mary 4817

NS

cwrkpa : Workers Pay | c42 : Labor/Personnel Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter

Page250of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.austr : Australia | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB News Ltd.
AN Document TOWNBU0020140304ea3400011

Search Summary

Text

Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found
Timestamp

((chin* or hong kong)) and (
( (residential or site or commercial) and (casino resort or island or hotel or apartment
or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company or board or entitys) and
(transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) )
or
( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron or lead
or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or stake or
equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or firm or
company))
or
( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or equity
or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group or firm or
board) and (million* or billion* or B or M))
)
not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall Street
or Forex or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex)
and re=austr
01/01/2014 to 30/04/2014
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
2,564
29 August 2018 1:21

Page251of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.