ACCC backs Snowy to take on big three

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
ACCC backs Snowy to take on big three

Brian Robins
452 words
13 October 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
25
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Energy - Power struggle

The competition regulator has thrown its weight behind the privatisation of Snowy Hydro, which it
argues could create a viable competitor to the big three energy groups nationally.

In a speech to be given on Monday, Australian Competition and Consumer Commission chairman
Rod Sims pushes back against the need for "gas reservation", which some groups argue for as a
means of stemming the rise in gas prices, especially on the east coast.
Last month, Snowy Hydro paid $600 million to acquire most of the Australian energy assets of
Infratil, which more than doubled to close to one million its number of household customers in the
national electricity market.
Snowy Hydro has emerged as the fourth-largest energy retailer in the country, ranking behind only
AGL, Origin Energy and the China-controlled EnergyAustralia.

"One new element in the competitive dynamics of the market is the growing role of Snowy Hydro," Mr
Sims will tell an energy conference on Monday. "At some stage it would help to privatise Snowy
Hydro and clearly it should not be sold to any of Origin, Energy Australia or AGL. With privatisation it
would have the capital to be an even more vigorous competitor with the big three."

Snowy Hydro is owned by the Victorian, NSW and federal governments. A plan to privatise the
company was shelved following opposition from Canberra. The heightened role of Snowy Hydro
comes as the Queensland government is moving to sell off its power assets, with attention on its
power generators, which will give any acquirer significant control over the local market.

"The focus for [the ACCC] clearly will be on the generation assets," Mr Sims will say.
Stanwell and CS Energy control two-thirds of the output as well as servicing 84 per cent of small
residential customers, if Ergon is excluded, Mr Sims says.
"Breaking up Stanwell and CS Energy for privatisation into, say, three competitors ... would clearly
improve competitive outcomes and make ACCC approval a smoother path, as it would allow a
competitive generation market. But the identity of the buyers will also be critical.
"If non-big three players purchase some of the generation assets, or some assets were listed via an
IPO [initial public offering], it would support a more competitive generation sector."
The sale of the Queensland power industry assets "in a way that promotes competition will clearly
result in the best outcome for Queensland electricity consumers in the long term", Mr Sims will say.
The rise in domestic gas prices to international levels means "that we not seek a 'quick fix' that
distorts the competitive operation of gas markets".

Page85of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

boral : Origin Energy Ltd | sretpl : EnergyAustralia Pty Ltd | chlp : CLP Holdings Ltd
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i16101 : Electric Power
Generation | ieutil : Electric Utilities | iutil : Utilities
c182 : Asset Transactions | c183 : Privatizations/Nationalization | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio :
Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters |
nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020141012eaad00014

Page86of261©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.