Fitgenes set to list using reverse merger

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Fitgenes set to list using reverse merger

IPO watch Sally Rose
746 words
28 July 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
21
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Fitgenes Ltd , a small Perth company that offers health, wellness, fitness and nutrition advice that has
been personalised based on testing an individual's genetics, is set to list on the ASX through the
reverse takeover of a failed health spa group that shares two of the same shareholder directors.
The company aims to profit by delivering personalised preventative health and wellness services via a
network of about 450 independent practitioners that have done its certification process across
Australia, New Zealand, Singapore, Malaysia, Hong Kong and the United States. Fitgenes also
operates its own clinic operations, and the bulk of the money raised through in this offer will be used
to expand that network.

In June, it opened a Perth clinic with two naturopaths and a herbalist, using gene technology to
personalise client plans.

Additional revenue comes from training fees and subscriptions fees for the use of its trademark
technology platform Pracware.

"Over the last five years, Fitgenes Australia has developed a robust and highly-scalable technology
platform, which hosts and delivers what the directors believe to be one of the world's most advanced
genomics-based healthcare and wellness programs," Fitgenes chairman Carrie Hillyard said.
There are 12 million shares available in the initial public offer, priced at 30¢ each, to raise up to
$3.6 million. The total number of shares on issue at the completion of the IPO, assuming it is fully
subscribed, will be just shy of 42 million. A minimum of $3 million must be raised for the float to
proceed.
The company will use the ASX BookBuild Facility to allocate shares to new investors. The minimum
contribution required form individual investors to participate is $2000. The offer is scheduled to open
on Thursday August 1, and close on September 30.
Lead manager on the offer is Bluemount Capital with Octani Capital acting as corporate advisors. The
offer is not underwritten.

In April, shareholders in spa operator ATW Holdings Ltd (formerly Atos Wellness) agreed to acquire
Fitgenes Australia, necessitating a re-compliance listing. Upon re-listing, the company will change its
company name to Fitgenes Ltd .

Alongside Ms Hillyard and Ms McCall the Fitgenes board will comprise of chief executive Robert Mair ,
Conrad Crisafulli , and John Hurrell . Ms Hillyard and Mr Mair, who were also directors of
ATW Holdings, will be the largest shareholders in Fitgenes.
Fitgenes Hong Kong was incorporated last month as a joint venture with Eton Corporation Ltd to
distribute the product in Hong Kong, Taiwan, Guangdong province and Shanghai in China.Capital
raising round

Page146of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Also in June, the company raised $1.6 million through the issue of convertible notes in a mezzanine
capital raising round. Yuuwa Capital, a $40 million early stage Perth-based venture capital fund
tipped in $1 million. "We are very excited about the opportunities in the genetically personalised
medicine space," Yuuwa Capital director Elizabeth "Liddy" McCall said.

Ms McCall said that one of the most attractive things about the Fitgenes business model is that is
designed around providing the information based on genetic testing using health practitioners as
intermediaries rather than to the general public directly.

"One of the biggest challenges for this emerging industry globally has been working out how to deliver
information in a way that does not risk misleading or confusing people about their health. The
methodology Fitgenes is using of delivering its services via a network of general practitioners,
nutritionists and naturopaths is in line with the way the regulation is headed," McCall said.

One of the best known players in the US market, 23andMe , grew through direct to client services but
has now been forced by the US Food and Drug Administration to review its model, Ms McCall
said.Finalising another acquisition
The re-listing process will also finalise Fitgenes' acquisition of Gordiantec, a personalised genetics
data analysis business. Yuuwa Capital had previously invested in Gordiantec and Mr McCall is a
director. She will now join the Fitgenes board.

Fitgenes represents a highly speculative investment. Operating in a new field there are a raft of
technological and regulatory risks that may hamper its growth plans. The directors are unable to
speculate as to when the company might achieve profitability or return capital to shareholders in the
form of dividends. According to accounts lodged with ASIC, for the six month period ended December
31, 2013 the company reported a half-year loss of $307, 798.

medecl : Fitgenes Ltd.
i951 : Health Care/Life Sciences | i372 : Medical Equipment/Supplies
c1711 : Initial Public Offerings | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Shareholdings | cmerg : Mergers | cacqu :
Acquisitions/Mergers | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c02 : Corporate Changes | c14 : Stock
Listings | c17 : Funding/Capital | c171 : Share Capital | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate
Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | hkong : Hong Kong | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | china : China | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz :
Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North
America
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140727ea7s0001s

CO
IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page147of300©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.