Energy Companies; WEX Extends Relationship with ExxonMobil

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

CO
IN

NS
RE

IPD
PUB NewsRx.com
AN

Document ENRGWK0020140509ea5g0005m

Energy Companies; WEX Extends Relationship with ExxonMobil

278 words
16 May 2014
Energy Weekly News
ENRGWK
252
English
© Copyright 2014 Energy Weekly News via VerticalNews.com

2014 MAY 16 (VerticalNews) -- By a News Reporter-Staff News Editor at Energy Weekly News -- WEX
Inc. (NYSE: WEX), a leading provider of corporate payment solutions, announced that it has signed an
agreement with ExxonMobil to manage the customer service, collections and processing of the Esso
Commercial Fleet Card in Singapore, Hong Kong and Macau, and the Mobil Fleet Card in Guam and
Saipan.

"This new business agreement builds upon our existing relationship with ExxonMobil in the U.S., Canada
and Europe," said Melissa D. Smith, president and CEO of WEX. "Expanding our international footprint
and extending our product suite in the Asia-Pacific region are critical components of our long-term growth
strategy and we are delighted to be working with ExxonMobil on this new business." About WEX Inc.
WEX Inc. (NYSE: WEX) is a leading provider of corporate payment solutions. From its roots in fleet card
payments beginning in 1983, WEX has expanded the scope of its business into a multi-channel provider
of corporate payment solutions representing more than 7.8 million cardholders and offering exceptional
payment security and control across a wide spectrum of business sectors. The Company's operations
include WEX Bank, Fleet One, Pacific Pride, rapid! PayCard, WEX Australia, WEX New Zealand and
WEX Europe, as well as a majority equity position in UNIK S.A., Brazil. WEX and its subsidiaries employ
more than 1,400 associates. For more information about WEX, please visit www.wexinc.com.
Keywords for this news article include: WEX Inc, Energy Companies.

Our reports deliver fact-based news of research and discoveries from around the world. Copyright 2014,
NewsRx LLC

wrtexp : WEX Inc | exxn : Exxon Mobil Corporation
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300003 : Crude Petroleum Extraction | i81501 : Credit
Types/Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction | ifinal : Financial Services
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | braz : Brazil | nz : New Zealand | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | lamz : Latin America | namz : North America | samz : South America
Expanded Reporting

Page97of294©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.