MAIN HEAD

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

FEATA
MAIN HEAD

837 words
22 January 2014
The Ballarat Courier
FBALAC
39
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

BEEF Week at the Te Mania Angus headquarters at Mortlake this year will have a record number of
the autumn on-property bull sale team on display, along with reference sires, a catalogue of 55 stud
females to be offered at the bull sale and large mobs of the Te Mania Angus breeding herd.

It will be, in the words of Te Mania Angus director Tom Gubbins, "a complete one-stop shop for
cutting edge angus genetics".

"This year, 1000 commercial cows will be offered in the Team Te Mania Online Commercial Female
Sale through AuctionsPlus on the eve of our March 5 sale," Mr Gubbins said.
"At the sale, we have catalogued 155 bulls, as well as 55 stud females who have sons in the sale,
PTIC to calve in spring. The females will be sold on the Helmsman system, finishing 30 minutes after
the bull sale.
"The bull sale will again be a video auction, under cover with bulls penned outside," he said.

"The bull catalogue features 15 sons of super sire Tuwharetoa Regent D145 sons, and 13 from the
$91,000 bull Te Mania Emperor E343.

"Regent is currently the highest longfed Herdbook recorded sire on Breedplan and has matched that
with the most progeny recorded on Breedplan in the past two years, highly sought after for his meat
quality and growth traits.
"Te Mania Emperor sold for a then Australian record price at our 2011 autumn on-property sale and
he currently ranks in the top one per cent of the breed for seven traits and is being used widely
throughout the industry, as well as with semen sales to Chile, New Zealand, the United Kingdom and
Europe."

Mr Gubbins said at Te Mania Angus the sires used in the breeding program focused on sound
structure and were commercially oriented to provide breeders next-generation genetics.

He said that was reflected in the sire list for the 2014 catalogue and its diverse range of largely
homebred sires with excellent temperament, including Te Mania Flame F565, Festivity F327 and
Fitzpatrick F528.

"Increasingly, the success of the Te Mania Angus gene pool is being achieved with homebred bulls
and a cow herd run strictly under commercial conditions," Mr Gubbins said.

"That has helped us reverse the genetic flow. Instead of importing genetics, we are now exporting
them with growing success," he said.

"We have always been focused on breeding Australian bulls for Australian conditions with good
temperament something for which our cattle have long been recognised.

"Our genetics are exported to some of the industry's traditional powerhouse regions, and now through
live export, to some of the more rapidly-emerging world markets."

Page80of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.In 2013, Te Mania Angus exported 120 stud heifers to China, 93 bulls to Russia and 29 to
Kazakhstan, as well as its growing global semen markets. Team Te Mania members have also
exported more than 400 breeding heifers to Russia and China.

The Te Mania Angus story started in 1928 in New Zealand and the same bloodline has been Australia
since 1971.

Now under the management of Tom and Lucy Gubbins and Hamish and Amanda McFarlane, Te
Mania Angus is a herd of 1600 breeding cows at Mortlake, 400 recipients for the embryo transfer
program at Mansfield in Victoria's high country, and up to 80 lease sires at Connewarre.

From 1971, Australian founders Andrew and Mary Gubbins helped pioneer objective measurement in
the Australian beef cattle industry and performance recording has been a cornerstone of Te Mania
Angus.
The herd now has more than double the number of trait leaders in Angus Group Breedplan than any
other stud in Australia.

The stud's genetic program is now computer-analysed and matched for best possible joinings.

Mr Gubbins said using the data from each animal, recorded on Breedplan, the computer was able to
select sire candidates from Australia and occasionally overseas for an out-cross sire, best suited to
the Te Mania Angus herd and its breeding aim of Australian bulls.

He said once potential candidates were identified, the stud used Total Genetic Research
Management to pick the most suitable matches.

"It forecasts what the expected progeny will be like," Mr Gubbins said, "ensuring the progeny match
our preferences, such as high final weight and low mature cow size".

"Breeding isn't a visual art, it is a science and, as the accuracies, the volume of data, the range of
EBVs and the science of genomics accelerate, it will just keep getting better," he said.

"It's about having the candidates right. If you start off with bulls you don't really want to breed with,
then it isn't going to work."

To fast-track genetic progress Team Te Mania was launched in 1995 and is now a confederation of
40 beef cattle herds across NSW, Victoria and SA.

For more information, contact: Te Mania Angus. Phone: 03 5264 1606.

Email: hamish@temania.com.au

They initially

IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

i010010501 : Beef Cattle Farming | i0 : Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | i0100105 : Cattle Farming |
ilsfarm : Livestock Farming
c312 : External Markets | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types |
nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FBALAC0020140121ea1m0001m

Page81of243©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.