CBRE braces for new capital wave

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

PrimeSpace
CBRE braces for new capital wave

BEN WILMOT, STRATEGY
402 words
18 September 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
26
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

COMMERCIAL property agent Chris Ludeman spends little time at his New York base. But there’s
good reason for the global president of capital markets for CBRE to be constantly on the move.

On his reading, a new wave of investors is washing up on US shores and many domestic firms are
pushing into new territories.

“I live in New York (though) I am elsewhere for 70 per cent of my business life,” he says on a visit to
Sydney. Next week will see him in Dubai and Berlin — areas where global capital is again flowing.

Mr Ludeman quips that he “follows the money” and that is to be expected as he leads a business
active in virtually all areas of real estate advisory and investment.

CBRE was intermediary in about $US170 billion of capital markets deals last year and this year is on
track to top that.

“We’ll be 20 per cent or more higher than that this year,” he says. He puts the upswing down to the
global economic recovery, which he says is moving at different speeds around the world, and
commercial real estate attracting unprecedented capital.
Property yields have compressed in gateway markets, partly due to very low global interest rates,
and the absence of an oversupply of empty towers and malls. “We have a singularly unique, positive
perfect storm,” Mr Ludeman says.

Investors are now chasing assets in smaller or secondary markets and capital is also looking at core
and value-add opportunities, as well as some development plays, he says.

New money is finding it tough to break into what is an extremely competitive market. The veteran
agent, with 34 years experience, notes the marked shift towards entity level transactions as private
and public firms deploy the billions raised for property funds.
He keeps a close eye on private equity investors Starwood Capital, Lonestar and Blackstone Group,
citing their ability to take risk and seize an advantage as first into markets.

Billions have been raised to invest in Europe, with Mr Ludeman flagging this as an area of
interest.But the US will be just as busy says the man who helped take Chinese group Greenland
Holding into a $US1bn project in downtown LA last year. “That Chinese capital is incredibly
ambitious; they really want to take their place on the world stage,” he says.

CO
IN

NS

coldb : CBRE Group, Inc.
i85 : Real Estate Transactions | i8500021 : Office Real Estate | icireal : Commercial/Industrial Real
Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ireest : Real Estate
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News

Page82of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140917ea9i0000r

Page83of274©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.