Australian rare earths miner Lynas to move headquarters to Malaysia

HD
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

RF
CO
IN
NS

RE

IPD

Australian rare earths miner Lynas to move headquarters to Malaysia

339 words
2 July 2014
13:21
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2014 Reuters Limited

SYDNEY, July 2 (Reuters) - Australia-listed rare earths producer Lynas Corp will shift its headquarters
to Malaysia and cut jobs to reduce costs as it looks to lift output of the minerals used in a range of
high-tech equipment.

Following setbacks over the last two years in boosting output of rare earths mined in Australia and
processed at a plant in Malaysia, Lynas also said in a statement on Wednesday that key elements of
production had operated at target-capacity in the last quarter.

"This streamlining of office locations is the first in a series of initiatives aimed at simplifying our
approach," said Lynas Chief Executive Amanda Lacaze.

Other costs savings will include reducing workforce numbers, renegotiating contracts with suppliers
and improving procurement practices, the company said.
Lynas, one of two producers of rare earths oxides outside China, has struggled to ramp up its A$873
million plant in Malaysia since it started operating in November 2012 due to technical problems.

Lynas mines rare earths from its Mount Weld mine in Western Australia, grinds them to granular size
and ships them to its advanced materials plant in Pahang, Malaysia.
The slow ramp-up and a slump in rare earths prices have squeezed the firm's funding, forcing it to
raise A$40 million through a share sale in May and tap Nomura to refinance $215 million in debt,
provided by Japan's Sojitz and state-run Japan Oil, Gas and Metals National Corp.

Lynas replaced its chief executive in June, appointing Lacaze, a former telecommunications executive,
as the company's second new head in just over a year, counting on her marketing savvy.
The company has said it would hold off from increasing output to its full capacity of 22,000 tonnes a
year until the market improves.

Lynas stock climbed 1.4 percent to A$0.14 on Wednesday, less than half its price at the start of the
year.

Released: 2014-7-2T04:21:39.000Z
lyngld : Lynas Corporation Ltd
imet : Mining/Quarrying | iraremet : Rare Earth Metals | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources
chqr : Headquarters Relocation | credun : Lay-offs/Redundancies | c02 : Corporate Changes | c42 :
Labor/Personnel Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
malay : Malaysia | austr : Australia | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | sydney : Sydney | apacz :
Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | nswals : New
South Wales | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
Business

Page54of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IPC
PUB
AN

SERVICE:AUF
Thomson Reuters (Markets) LLC
Document LBA0000020140702ea72001e3

Page55of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.