Atrum Coal NL ( ASX:ATU) Appoints Coal Specialist Mr Cameron Vorias to the Board

Atrum Coal NL (ASX:ATU) Appoints Coal Specialist Mr Cameron Vorias to the Board

HD
WC 564 words
PD
3 July 2014
ET
09:28
SN
ABN Newswire
SC
ABNENG
LA
English
CY
Copyright 2014. Asia Business News Pty Ltd.
LP

TD

Perth, Australia, July 3, 2014 - (ABN Newswire) - Atrum Coal NL (ASX:ATU) (OTCMKTS:ATRCF)
("Atrum" or the "Company") is pleased to announce the appointment of Mr Cameron Vorias to the Board
as a Non-Executive Director.

Commenting on the appointment, Chairman Mr James Chisholm stated:

"We are pleased to welcome Cameron to the team at a time when Atrum is looking to mine its first
anthracite. He has built and operated a number of coal mines for major mining companies and we look
forward to his contribution as Atrum transitions from explorer to producer this year."

Mr Cameron Vorias, BE (Hons), MBA (Technology) has in excess of 30 years' operational experience in
the mining industry including underground and open cut metallurgical coal mining and large scale
haematite iron ore operations. He has a solid track record in new mine development, resource
management and risk management. He has worked around the world including Australia, South Africa,
Venezuela, China, Alaska, USA and Indonesia.
Mr Vorias started his career with BHP Iron Ore in Mount Newman as a mining engineer where he was
responsible for open cut mine planning and operations before moving to work for Shell International in
London as the business development and project acquisition manager with responsibility for the
acquisition of the Paso Diablo and Socuy mines in Venezuela.
Mr Vorias was previously General Manager for New Hope Coal where he constructed and operated the
New Acland Mine near Toowoomba, Queensland, producing 7Mtpa run-of-mine coal and employing
approximately 200 people. He was also previously General Manager (Queensland Operations) for Excel
Coal where he developed and commissioned the $350M "Millennium" coal mine in central Queensland,
employing around 300 people and producing 1.5Mt of product in the first year of operation. He held the
position of Chief Operating Officer (Queensland) for PeabodyEnergy Australia where he managed six
large underground and open cut coal mining operations which generated in excess of US$1.8B in
revenue annually and employed 1,500 people.
Mr Vorias is currently Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Sojitz Coal Mining Pty Ltd. In this
role, he is responsible for the management of a large open cut coal mine. As well, he is currently
reviewing a number of new Australian business opportunities on behalf of Sojitz.
Mr Vorias is also currently a Non-Executive Director of Coal of Queensland Pty Ltd, an emerging coking
coal mining company in Queensland.
About Atrum Coal NL:
Atrum Coal NL (ASX:ATU) (OTCMKTS:ATRCF) is an emerging metallurgical coal explorer and
developer.
The Company has a substantial coal position in British Columbia which, as a region boasts:

- Abundance of high quality PCI, coking and anthracite coals

- Well developed rail and port infrastructure with excess capacity

Page27of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.- Access to deep sea ports

- Competitive shipping distance to Asia
- Positive government stance on mining
The Company is building a quality portfolio of metallurgical coal assets suited to the Asian export market
and the Board of Directors have a strong track record in identifying and developing world class coal
assets in Australia and abroad.

Contact:
Atrum Coal NL
T: +61-8-9388-3131
WWW: www.atrumcoal.com
Nathan Ryan
Investor Relations
M: +61-420-582-887
E-mail: nathan@atrumcoal.com
Source:
Atrum Coal NL

RF
CO
IN

NS

ABNEN77527
atrxzt : Atrum Coal NL
i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying | i1 : Energy | i111
: Coal Mining
c411 : Management Moves | cslmc : Senior Level Management | c41 : Management Issues | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News
Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

RE
PUB Asia Business News Pty Ltd.
AN

Document ABNENG0020140703ea720005l

Page28of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.