China making a fine point of our red meat

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

EARLY GENERAL NEWS
China making a fine point of our red meat

MIRANDA KENNY
570 words
17 April 2014
The Land
FTLAND
15
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

IN THE past seven years Elders Fine Food has grown to five times its size, distributing about 50
tonnes a month of Australian red meat predominantly beef throughout China.

And South Australian products such as Thomas Foods International's Clare Valley Certified
Australian Angus and Murraylands Lamb brands; and Bultarra Saltbush Lamb, Port Augusta, have
helped drive that growth.

Elders Fine Foods general manager Craig Aldous, who spoke to woolgrowers recently as part of the
2014 Elders China Wool Tour, said from a turnover of just $2 million, the company had boosted
profits to $12m Australia, and were forecasting growth in the next three years of 20 per cent to 25pc
year-on-year.
"I think we can double this business in the next three to four years," Mr Aldous said.
"We're a $25m to $30m turnover business in food service in Australia that is quite a significant
business.
"It's a significant business here too in the niche section that we operate in at the top-end of the
market."

Mr Aldous said despite the ban on chilled meat imports last year which had made up the majority of
what they offered they had continued to grow by exporting frozen shipments.

"We try and stick to brands where we can get exclusivity as we're focused on high-end channels," he
said.

Meat used to produce burgers came from Swift, Teys or Thomas Foods International, dependent on
price.

"Processing sausages and patties, cutting into portion sizes or leaving as whole piece primals, and
distributing to hotels, restaurants and supermarkets all around China is 90pc of our business," Mr
Aldous said.

He said Australia's clean and green image had been a positive.
"Most Chinese people want to know where product comes from, where it is packed and how it is
labelled," he said.

"Children are revered here because they generally only get one (recently increased to two a family),
the fallout from the melamine milk powder scandal was massive."
While in the past Elders Fine Foods had also sold olive oil, dairy, seafood, beer and wine, these
sections were soon to close so the business could focus on its core strength, red meat.

Page232of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mr Aldous said while a Free Trade Agreement between China and Australia could provide benefits,
his biggest concern was the large quantities of beef smuggled into China.

These products had a 29 per cent price advantage over Elders Fine Foods, which had to pay a 12pc
tariff and 17pc value-added tax on imports.

"We need to set up the right protocols to benefit from a free trade agreement (FTA)," Mr Aldous said.

"There's an opportunity there as well for the live export trade.
"China is a net importer of beef which reflects that demand is outstripping supply."
While the head office remains in Shanghai, the company also had offices and warehouses in
Beijing.
Sales are split with 60 per cent of product sold to eastern China, 20pc to the north, 15pc south and
5pc west.

"The split is about 45pc to hotels, 35pc restaurants, 15pc retail supermarkets and 5pc wholesale,"
he said.
Elders Fine Foods will soon outsource its warehousing in China.
n Miranda Kenny travelled to China courtesy of Elders as part of the 2014 Elders China Wool Tour.

tarppl : Thomas Foods International Pty Ltd
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i412 : Animal Slaughtering/Processing | i4122 : Meat Processing |
icnp : Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products
c312 : External Markets | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types |
nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | china : China | nswals : New South Wales | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging
Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FTLAND0020140416ea4h0002d

CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page233of283©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.