China to sign FTA by year’s end

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

TheNation
China to sign FTA by year’s end

SCOTT MURDOCH, SID MAHER, Additional reporting: Wang Yuanyuan
472 words
25 June 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
4
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

CHINA has flagged it intends to finalise a free-trade agreement with Australia before the end of the
year after nine years of negotiation in a move that has buoyed Australian negotiators.
Joe Hockey and Trade Minister Andrew Robb met with Xu Shaoshi, the chairman of China’s top
economic planning agency, the National Development and Review Commission, yesterday in Beijing
who reaffirmed the nation’s commitment to signing a deal in the next few months.

There is growing speculation a deal will be signed when Chinese President Xi Jinping visits Australia in
November for the Brisbane G20 meeting and is expected to address federal parliament.

Mr Robb said there was an increasing willingness from Beijing to finalise an agreement that has been
through more than 20 rounds of official negotiations.
China is now Australia’s largest trading partner, with two-way trade between the nations worth at leat
$US130 billion a year. The agricultural sector has become a stand-off as China seeks to increase its
investment in Australia, especially in the dairy industry.
Canberra hopes to replicate the dramatic increase in diary exports to China enjoyed by New Zealand
since it signed an FTA with China in 2008. NZ exports, of which one third is diary, have more than
doubled since the deal was signed.
Australia has campaigned to be allowed greater access to the Chinese market for services.

Foreign Minister Julie Bishop had promised that an FTA would be finalised a year after the September
election, but Tony Abbott adjusted the deadline until the end of this year. “The FTA is about rules and
we will hopefully conclude a set of rules that will free up trade between Australia and China,” Mr Robb
said. “We are ... on track, it is a negotiation but we are both confident and we have gone into some
detail as to what ground that has to be covered.” The meetings also finalised an investment framework
aimed to reduce the regulations between Australia and China.

Mr Hockey said the Coalition was keen to encourage more investment, especially into its northern
Australia development plans. Under the current plan, Australia is expected to allow greater investment
from China’s state-owned enterprises.

Mr Hockey ruled out strengthening foreign investment regulations to stop overseas citizens from buying
multi-million dollar Australian properties.

The Australian has revealed that cashed up overseas investors were purchasing showcase overseas
properties, in spite of Foreign Investment Review Board guidelines which prohibit them from buying
existing homes.“There are existing rules for overseas investors, they are entitled to under certain
circumstances to buy existing properties but the rules are very strict,” the Treasurer said. “There has
been no evidence that I have seen of abuse those rules.”

NS

gdip : International Relations | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations

Page221of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.RE

PUB
AN

china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing
Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020140624ea6p00031

Page222of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.