Miners' phones start to ring again as investors renew interest

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Miners' phones start to ring again as investors renew interest

Amanda Saunders
773 words
5 August 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
15
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Fund managers are starting to drip cash back into the resources sector, but it has come too late to
address the looming shortage of profitable projects in Australia's mining pipeline.
As 1900 people converged on Kalgoorlie for the start of the annual Diggers and Dealers mining
conference on Monday, the mood was cautiously upbeat, despite tough conditions for junior miners.

Investors have started to return to the resources sector in the past six weeks and a string of equity
raisings in base metals has helped buoy the mood a little.

Over the past six weeks, institutions and wealthy individuals have signalled they are prepared to
stump up money for good projects or good drilling results, particularly in base metals and gold.

Eddie Rigg, managing director of Perth boutique investment bank and brokerage Argonaut, says the
lack of exploration in the past four years had created a "frightening" effect.

"A major theme is – where the hell is future production going to come from?" he says.

"There is such a shortage of quality projects to be put into production, what's coming on is not filling
up the gaps for what is coming off.

"If we thought the last boom – which was due to a perceived lack of commodities – was big, we think
the next one is going to blow the last one apart."

Less than a dozen of the undeveloped resource projects held by ASX-listed companies, at scoping
study level, would make money at today's commodity prices and exchange rate, he says.
"We can't identify a single undeveloped copper, zinc or iron ore project [outside of BHP and Rio]
that would be profitable at today's prices, and aside from Sirius Resources, there is nothing in nickel
that would be profitable," he said. "Once other people start to appreciate the lack of new projects
available to come onstream they are going to fund more."

While bankers at the country's biggest investment banks expect deal activity in the resources sector
to remain subdued, PCF Capital managing director Liam Twigger says in the past two months fund
managers had started to diversify their holdings away from low-yield industrial stocks to resources,
where many were underweight.

"We've been waiting for this moment after a three-year nuclear winter, where it has been very hard to
raise money," he says.
"We are not back to boom times but there is equity around for good projects. And we're starting to
see a fear of missing-out syndrome among fund managers."

Page415of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Mr Rigg agreed, saying fund managers wanted entry through a liquidity event: either a placement or
a block selldown. They were chasing exposure to base metals.

"The market is thin but for first time in three years we are getting institutions calling us, instead of the
other way around all the time, it started about six weeks ago."

According to Mr Twigger, investors are wary and it is only good projects run by good management
that make the cut.

"Investors are wary of capital cost blowouts," Mr Twigger says.
Gone are the days where a magnetite company with a market capitalisation of $100 million can
raise money for a $1 billion project. For now anyway.
He tips a continuation of capital raisings between $5 million and $50 million in copper, nickel and
gold.

Hartleys head of corporate financeGrey Egerton-Warburton said he too had seen a shift in interest
towards resources over the past two months, both from wealthy individuals and institutions.
"For those in nickel and zinc, and to a lesser degree copper, it feels like a very exciting time," he
said.
He pointed to the $189 million cash call Hartleys made for Sirius in late July as a signal of the
renewed appetite.
Mr Twigger puts the trigger for the shift in sentiment as Baosteel's all-cash takeover of Perth iron ore
junior Aquila Resources, which lobbed in May.

"It was a cash bid, which broke new ground created a new market dynamic," he says.
"Generally, the Chinese method to buy into projects has been shares in a joint venture."
But Mr Rigg tips that Baosteel's bid will be the last for a long time as the Chinese government steps
up its attack on corruption at SOEs.

"The SOEs are paralysed with indecision at the moment, no one wants to raise their head," he says.
The area of most investigation been oil and gas, metals and mining.

"Baosteel I think will be the last one [SOE bid] for at least 12 months."

RE
PUB
AN

austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140804ea850002o

Page416of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.