FED:Treasury Wine embarks on $260m restruct=2

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

FED:Treasury Wine embarks on $260m restruct=2

297 words
25 June 2014
Australian Associated Press Financial News Wire
AAPFIN
English
(c) 2014 Australian Associated Press Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved

TREASURY Treasury will split its Australian commercial business, which includes Lindeman's and
Annie's Lane, from its luxury and masstige portfolio which is home to Penfolds Grange.

It said moving the release of the Penfolds Bin Series and Icon & Luxury Collection wines to October,
from March and May, would ensure the wines were on sale for longer.

The change will also help Treasury manage allocations and inventory levels with key customers around
the world.

"An October release for Penfolds wines is fully supported by our winemaking teams," said chief
executive Michael Clarke, who took on the top job in March.
"This change places the consumer at the heart of our business model with Penfolds wines now more
readily available in the lead-up to key festive periods including Thanksgiving, Christmas, Chinese New
Year and Easter."

Treasury said it would launch its biggest ever promotion of its Penfolds range from July.
The wine maker expects the restructure will cause a $260 million hit to its bottom line in fiscal 2014.
The charge reflects the cost of acquisitions, falls in market growth rates for commercial wine globally,
the company's brands, IT, plant and equipment assets.
As part of the changes, Treasury will also manage its operations in Asia, Europe, Middle East and
Africa separately to its Australia-New Zealand business.

Treasury in May rejected a $4.70-a-share takeover proposal from Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co.

It said it preferred to focus on its plans to improve performance, address various structural challenges
facing the business and to cut costs.
Takeover speculation has been swirling around TWE as the company has struggled in recent years to
get its assets in the US to perform better.

AAP bt/cdh

CO
IN

RE
PUB
AN

trzwn : Treasury Wine Estates Ltd
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i426 : Wine | ialco : Alcoholic Beverages/Drinks | ibevrge :
Beverages/Drinks | icnp : Consumer Goods
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Australian Associated Press Pty Ltd
Document AAPFIN0020140624ea6p00462

Page196of235©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.