Concern as Qld LNG export projects eye local gas supplies

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Companies and Markets
Concern as Qld LNG export projects eye local gas supplies

Angela Macdonald-Smith
527 words
6 February 2014
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
23
English
Copyright 2014. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

BG Group has revealed it expects to rely on third parties for up to a fifth of the gas initially needed
for its $US20.4 billion ($22.5 billion) LNG export project in Queensland, highlighting the extent to
which the project will draw on supplies that would otherwise be available for local use.

Chief executive Chris Finlayson told investors in a Tuesday briefing in London that in 2014-16, gas
bought externally would make up "some 10 per cent to 20 per cent of supply to the plant."

He said once the two-train project had ramped up fully, the share of third-party gas would fall to
about 5 per cent.

BG's comments are set to revive concerns about Queensland LNG ventures' need to dip into
supplies that were expected to be on offer for industrial users. That demand is pushing prices up
well beyond the $3.50-$4 a gigajoule level typical of recent years.

The first train at BG's Queensland Curtis LNG project is due to start exports in the December
quarter. China's CNOOC owns half of the first train.

Santos's GLNG project under construction in Queensland is also set to rely heavily on third-party
supplies, at least in the initial years. The third project, Origin Energy's Australia Pacific LNG venture,
is not expected to be so affected.
BG's QGC business in Queensland has already sealed deals with AGL Energy and with the APLNG
venture for gas. It is not clear whether it requires additional supplies.

Mr Finalyson said BG was pursuing other exploration plays to increase gas available for QCLNG,
including shale gas in the Cooper Basin and other gas in the Bowen and Surat
Basins.'Debottlenecking'

But he played down the likelihood of any early move to expand QCLNG, pointing instead to
opportunities to "debottleneck" the project, which would involve bolt-on investments to modestly lift
capacity, rather than an adding a third processing unit.

"At the moment, I would not anticipate us taking a decision on that in the near future," he said. "Our
focus is on delivering what we have."

"Quite clearly the most capital-efficient thing that we can do is to carry through that debottlenecking,
fill those trains and make sure that they're kept full for longer," Mr Finlayson said.
Mr Finlayson, who took over as CEO at the British company a year ago, confirmed BG is
considering the sale of gas pipelines and water treatment facilities at QCLNG to free up capital.

"We will make disposal at the optimum time to capture the best value," he said.

Page94of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Commonwealth Bank of Australia analyst Luke Smith estimates the likely sale price for the
540-kilometre QCLNG pipeline at $US2 billion to $US3 billion.

APA Group, Duet Group and AMP Capital are among those that have voiced interest in pipelines
that the Queensland LNG ventures may sell.READ NEXT: BP's Dudley firm on asset sale program
LNG hits a cost wall Martin Ferguson joins global board of BG Group Woodside, BG lead interest in
Myanmar

brgas : BG Group PLC
i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | i1300014 : Natural Gas Extraction | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil
Extraction
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020140205ea260003f

CO
IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

Page95of263©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.