S'pore Power completes sale of Australian stakes

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Top Stories
S'pore Power completes sale of Australian stakes

ronnie lim ronnie@sph.com.sg
490 words
4 January 2014
Business Times Singapore
STBT
English
(c) 2014 Singapore Press Holdings Limited

19.9% in SP AusNet, 60% in SPIAA sold to a unit of China's State Grid

Singapore

SINGAPORE Power subsidiary Singapore Power International (SPI) has completed two landmark
deals - earlier estimated to be worth a total of more than A$5 billion (S$5.63 billion) - for the sale of
equity stakes in SP AusNet and SPI (Australia) Assets (SPIAA) to a unit of State Grid Corporation of
China (SGCC).

Announcing the close of the transactions yesterday - seven months after they were first disclosed -
SP said it remained a committed long-term investor in Australia's electricity and gas transmission and
distribution network.

"Australia continues to be a strategic focus for SP through SPI's remaining 40 per cent interest in
SPIAA and 31.1 per cent security interest in SP AusNet," it said.
This follows its sale of a 19.9 per cent stake in SP AusNet to the Chinese state-owned company's
subsidiary, State Grid International Development (SGID), for A$824 million, together with another 60
per cent stake in SPIAA, a private company, for an undisclosed amount.

SP's assurances about staying the course in Australia follow news reports suggesting that there
seemed to be an exodus of Singapore state-owned firms from the country, with SingTel's review of its
Optus satellite business there and CapitaLand's relook at its Australand Property Groupstake.
SP AusNet is the largest diversified energy network business in Victoria, owning and operating more
than $10 billion of electricity and gas distribution assets, including the state-wide electricity
transmission network.

SPIAA owns various electricity, gas and transmission assets in several states, including Victoria,
Melbourne, New South Wales and Queensland.

SP said a major consideration in partnering SGID was the latter's significant capability and strong
operational track record.

Said Group CEO Wong Kim Yin: "SP is very pleased with the successful completion of the
transactions. I am confident that with the strong support from SGCC and SP, the Australian
businesses will be well positioned for further opportunity and growth. The outcome has also affirmed
Australia's strong support for businesses and foreign investments."

SP's latest annual report also cited chairman Mohd Hassan Marican as saying that "Australia forms a
critical part of SP's growth strategy and will remain firmly so". He added that the deals with SGCC will
help enhance investment value and position it for future stategic growth.
SP AusNet invested $881.4 million over the past year in capital expenditure to strengthen and
expand its network. It also improved supply reliability, reducing the time that customers were without
electricity by 13.7 per cent and gas by 11.7 per cent, he said.

Page52of210©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.ART

CO

IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

LONG-TERM INVESTMENTS SP said that 'Australia continues to be a strategic focus' through SPI's
remaining interests in SPIAA and SP AusNet. - PHOTO: BLOOMBERG
spauen : SP AusNet | stgcoc : State Grid Corporation Of China | sinpow : Singapore Power Ltd |
tmasek : Temasek Holdings Pte Ltd
i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i16102 : Electric Bulk Power Transmission | ieutil : Electric Utilities | iutil :
Utilities
c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat :
Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | singp : Singapore | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia |
ausnz : Australia/Oceania | seasiaz : Southeast Asia
Singapore Press Holdings Limited
Document STBT000020140103ea140000h

Page53of210©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.