Goodman suitors threaten to walk

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Goodman suitors threaten to walk

Sue Mitchell
289 words
2 July 2014
Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
24
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Takeovers
Singapore agribusiness groupWilmar International could walk away from its $1.4 billion joint bid for
breads and spreads maker Goodman Fielder unless the board agrees to recommend a
"watered-down" offer.

Goodman Fielder's board was due to meet on Tuesday night to reconsider a revised bid from
Wilmar and Hong Kong investment company First Pacific, which are seeking to reduce their
70¢-a-share bid to about 67¢ or 68¢ a share.

The joint bidders, which completed four weeks of due diligence over the weekend, want to reduce
the value of the offer by between $40 million and $60 million, claiming the maker of Helgas bread,
Meadow Lea spread and Praise mayonnaise has underinvested in plant and equipment and direct
marketing expenditure over many years.

Fairfax Media believes the discounted offer may also reflect differences in opinion between Wilmar
and First Pacific about Goodman Fielder's worth.

Market sources said First Pacific was more enthusiastic than Wilmar, which might "walk away"
unless the board agreed to recommend the revised offer.

First Pacific planned to make an offer for Goodman under its own steam before joining forces in April
with Wilmar, which has been sitting on a 10.1 per cent stake for two years.
Goodman's board is now paying the price for failing to sign a scheme implementation agreement
before recommending the 70¢-a-share offer and allowing Wilmar and First Pacific to conduct due
diligence.
If the board agrees to the revised offer and an implementation agreement is signed, it is expected to
include onerous "material circumstances" conditions that would allow the bidders to pull out if profits
fell short of forecasts.

CO
IN
RE
PUB
AN

fdgl : Goodman Fielder Ltd
i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp : Consumer Goods
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020140701ea7200043

Page22of298©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.