Infant formula maker sued over sourcing of milk powder

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Infant formula maker sued over sourcing of milk powder

Jared Lynch
422 words
3 January 2014
The Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
First
18
English
© 2014 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.

Courts
A group of Chinese investors is suing a Melbourne infant formula maker for almost $4 million after
it sourced its milk powder from New Zealand instead of Australia.

Hong Feng Investments claims that Milk Powder Solutions, in Braeside, made false and misleading
statements to secure a contract to supply infant formula to China.
The court action comes as Australian and international dairy companies position themselves to
capitalise on the Asian boom, which is being fuelled by a growing Chinese middle class and
changes to a more Western-style diet.
According to Federal Court documents, Jenny Feng, a Milk Powder Solutions employee, told Hong
Feng's Australian sales and marketing manager, Ben Shi, in July 2011 that it used milk powder
"entirely from the Tatura region of Victoria".
Ms Fang told Mr Shi that Milk Powder Solutions director Simon Hansford had a "special relationship
with farmers in Tatura" and that its product would be of "exceptional quality as a result".
China has a strong appetite for foreign infant formula, particularly product that is made from
Australian milk powder, which has a safe and reliable reputation.
Six babies died and about 54,000 more were taken to hospital in China in 2008 after a Chinese
infant formula was contaminated with melamine, which causes renal and urinary problems, in an
attempt to increase its protein content.
Another milk scare surfaced in August when Beijing banned products from the world's biggest dairy
exporter and New Zealand's main milk processor, Fonterra, after it was discovered that some of the
company's products contained bacteria that could cause botulism.
Hong Feng alleges that after it signed a contract to buy at least 160,000 units of infant formula over
three years, Milk Powder Solutions said it would use milk powder from New Zealand, not Tatura, to
produce the formula.

"[Hong Feng] would not have entered into the contract had it known that the product to be supplied
to it was not from the Tatura region or not entirely from Australia or that the product merely qualified
to attach the 'made in Australia' logo or that any quantity of the product at all would be sourced from
New Zealand," it said.
Hong Feng claims it has lost a business opportunity worth about $US3.8 million considering it
would have made a profit of at least $US23.78 a unit of infant formula.

A directions hearing is scheduled for February 7.

Page80of210©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

RE

PUB
AN

i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i010010502 : Dairy Cattle Farming | i0 : Agriculture | i01001 :
Farming | i0100105 : Cattle Farming | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i413 : Dairy Products | icnp :
Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products | ilsfarm : Livestock Farming
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document SMHH000020140102ea130004r

Page81of210©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.