Treasury Wine Estates Rejects KKR Takeover Offer

Treasury Wine Estates Rejects KKR Takeover Offer

CLM Top Stories
HD
BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

By Ross Kelly
1,130 words
20 May 2014
22:04
Dow Jones Top North American Equities Stories
DJTNAE
English
Copyright © 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

TD

SYDNEY-- Treasury Wine Estates Ltd. rebuffed a 3.05 billion Australian dollar (US$2.85 billion)
takeover bid from KKR & Co. L.P., even as the world's No. 2 vintner grapples with setbacks, including
poor sales last year in the U.S., which forced it to destroy thousands of gallons of wine.
The rejected bid sets the stage for the U.S. private-equity firm to either raise its A$4.70-a-share cash
offer for the vintner, go hostile or walk away.

If KKR pulls out, Treasury Wine will become the latest in list of failed Australian deals in recent years for
the New York firm that included rejected bids for a fund manager and an underwear manufacturer.
If KKR does raise its bid, Treasury Wine, which was spun off from brewer Foster's Group a few years
ago, may get an owner that will cut costs and sell assets to squeeze more value out of its global brand
portfolio.
In a sign that investors believe KKR will raise its bid or another bidder will step forward, Treasury Wine
shares closed up 18% Tuesday in Sydney at A$4.80.
"KKR is looking to split it up, clean up the U.S. business for an eventual trade buyer who can benefit
from synergies," said Will Seddon, a portfolio manager at Sydney-based White Funds Management,
which owns Treasury Wine shares. "There's a lot of debate about what the company is worth, but in our
view the stock isn't cheap, so the offer price isn't a lowball number."
Treasury Wine, which owns the mass-market Beringer label and the premium brand Penfolds Grange,
among others, said it held initial talks with KKR after being approached about a deal on April 16. The
vintner, advised by Goldman Sachs Group Inc., then decided to make details of the offer public after
learning that the private-equity firm's adviser, Nomura, had approached some of its shareholders. KKR
confirmed it made a takeover approach, but denied it had jeopardized any confidentiality commitments
when it unilaterally approached the vintner's investors.

A KKR spokesman wouldn't comment on whether it is prepared to raise its offer.
A series of missteps by Treasury Wine, which counts Constellation Brands Inc. as its biggest rival, has
made it a vulnerable target for private-equity firms.
The value of Treasury Wine nearly halved in the 10 months through March, in large part due to problems
in the U.S., where it overestimated sales of brands such as Beringer and was forced to destroy wine that
had passed its prime. The wine destruction, which involved crushing bottles with steamrollers, was the
basis of a A$155 million write-down and contributed to the departure of former Chief Executive David
Dearie in September. Treasury Wine's U.S. unit is based in California's Napa Valley.
An attempt by Treasury Wine to raise prices in Australia before the Christmas holiday season also
backfired by scaring consumers away. Meanwhile, hopes that China could become a big new market
were dented by Beijing's campaign against extravagant gift-giving by government officials, which has
hurt demand for premium brands.

Page107of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Australia hasn't been a happy hunting ground for KKR. Its biggest takeover attempt in the country
unraveled in 2007, when it pulled the plug on a bid for supermarket chain Coles, which was eventually
bought for about A$20 billion by Australian conglomerate Wesfarmers Ltd. In 2010, KKR failed in an
attempt to buy fund manager Perpetual Ltd., while in 2012 it backed away from a move on underwear
and workwear maker Pacific Brands Ltd. An attempted IPO of its Australian mining investment Bis
Industries Ltd also flopped at the end of last year, although an investment in health-care specialist
Genesis Care in 2012 was more successful.
Australia is one of the few counties in the Asia Pacific region, apart from Japan, where private-equity
firms can deploy large amounts of money and buy out targets. In China, for example, investors are often
limited to minority stakes. Private-equity firms including KKR, Blackstone Group L.P. and TPG Inc. are
flush with cash after taking advantage of buoyant share markets to sell earlier investments worth
hundreds of billions of dollars combined. Indeed, KKR raised US$6 billion for a new Asia fund, its
biggest ever private-equity fund devoted to the Asian-Pacific region, and a deal of Treasury Wine's size,
if it goes ahead, could dent that.

If it makes a new offer, or decides to go hostile by taking the bid directly to shareholders, KKR will need
to convince investors that Treasury Wine's new Chief Executive Michael Clarke won't be able to turn the
business around quickly and help its share price.
Mr. Clarke, who once steered Kraft Food Group Inc.'s European business and has held senior positions
at Coca-Cola Co., joined Treasury Wine on March 31. He wants to steady the ship by focusing on
Treasury Wine's most profitable brands and by cutting costs. A spokesman for Treasury Wine said
Tuesday the company intends to lay off about 5% of its staff, or 175 positions.

"There's a number of brands in our portfolio that we can nurture and strengthen," Mr. Clarke said
Tuesday.
Analysts said the company faces a tough road to recovery, even if it is able to fend off KKR's advances.
Problems have trailed Melbourne-based Treasury Wine since its 2011 spinoff from Foster's, which was
later bought by SABMiller. Back then, a glut of Australian grapes and weak sales in the U.S. weighed on
profit. It made a A$1 billion write-down of the business before the spinoff.

The Australian dollar's relative strength--it was above parity with the U.S. dollar from October 2010 until
May of last year--has made Australia's products less competitive against wines from rival regions, such
as California's Napa Valley and South American markets. The company has also suffered from
changing U.S. wine tastes, with consumers increasingly opting for more expensive labels than the
mass-market offerings that are Treasury Wine's U.S. focus.
Some analysts and investors have called on Treasury Wine to sell its U.S. business, or even look to
create a new company for premium assets such as Penfolds that could be listed on the Australian
Securities Exchange.

"Despite offering what we believe is an already reasonable price, we believe it most likely that KKR will
further sweeten their bid in coming weeks, albeit not materially higher," analysts at Macquarie said.

Write to Ross Kelly at ross.kelly@wsj.com

CO
IN

NS

RE

kkr : KKR & Co. L.P. | trzwn : Treasury Wine Estates Ltd
ibevrge : Beverages/Drinks | i81501 : Credit Types/Services | idurhg : Durable Household Products | i831
: Financial Investments | i426 : Wine | ialtinv : Alternative Investments | icnp : Consumer Goods | i41 :
Food/Beverages/Tobacco | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | ialco : Alcoholic Beverages/Drinks
| ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities | i8150203 : Private Equity
cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | c181 :
Acquisitions/Mergers/Divestments | c18 : Ownership Changes | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America | usny : New York State | pacisz : Pacific
Islands | usa : United States | use : Northeast U.S. | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania

PUB Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
AN

Document DJTNAE1120140520ea5k0004h

Page108of269©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.