DATAROOM

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
DATAROOM

Edited by Bridget Carter and Gretchen Friemann
1,017 words
20 November 2014
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
24
English
© 2014 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Nine, UBS working on potential Ticketek sale NINE Entertainment is working with investment bank
UBS on a potential sale of its Ticketek business and its rights to manage Sydney’s Allphones Arena,
in a deal expected to be worth about $360 million, according to sources.
Nine has denied the business is for sale but sources say a divestment of the enterprise is on the
cards.

Ticketek is a leading ticketing services provider to the live events industry in Australia and New
Zealand, and is the largest participant by ticket sales volume in Australia.

It issues more than 22 million tickets per annum in Australia and New Zealand and has over 135
exclusive ticketing services contracts with venue and promoter clients.

Allphones Arena, meanwhile, is Australia’s largest indoor entertainment arena, seating 21,000
people, and is one of the world’s top 10 concert arenas by ticket sales volume.

The free-to-air television network owns the management rights of the indoor stadium in western
Sydney.

The two businesses together have annual earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation
of about $60m.

The combined price tag is expected to reach close to $360m.

Private equity firms are viewed as the most likely buyers.
Ardent Leisure, the listed entertainment company that owns Dreamworld amusement park, may also
emerge as a potential suitor.

The latest speculation follows the termination of Nine’s talks to acquire oOh! Media.

Champ Private Equity yesterday set the pricing range for an initial public offering of the outdoor
advertiser at between 8.2 times to 8.8 times its forecast EBITDA, equating to a market value of
between $401m and $431m.

That compares to 9.4 times EBITDA for rival APN Outdoor, which finished 10c higher on its first day
of trade last week, after initially pricing at $2.55 per share. Yesterday, APN closed at $2.63.
The oOh! Media deal has been executed by Macquarie Group and Highbury Partnership.

Macquarie digs deep ABU Dhabi's sovereign wealth fund, ADIA, has funnelled $300 million into
Logos Property, the fund manager and developer now partially owned by Macquarie Capital.

Page180of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The arrival of this latest deeppocketed investor bolsters an already formidable line-up for Logos with
joint ventures also struck with GIC, the Singaporean wealth fund, and Blackstone, the New York
private equity giant.
According to sources, Macquarie's unlisted property team, led by Brett Robson, reeled in ADIA as
part of its new fundraising strategy. The investment bank that once made a fortune from
externally-managed real estate trusts is returning to an ownership model.

However, this time round Macquarie will have no input into the operational management, rather it
intends to adopt strategic stakes and pursue co-investment opportunities.

The investments will be held on the bank's balance sheet and are likely to substantially augment the
profits from its property division.
Macquarie's unlisted real estate team started out as a placement agency but in the run-up to the
global financial crisis it became a crucial investor to a number of its key clients like Charter Hall
Group, in which it still holds a stake, as well as Goodman Group.

Yet as the listed sector has returned to rude health, Macquarie has sought out fresh revenue streams.

Its 30 per cent-plus investment in Logos, founded by former Goodman executives, enables it to reap
a share of the profits while its co-investment mandate aligns the bank more closely to clients like
ADIA.

The developer ranks as one of the sizeable players in Australia's logistics sector and is gradually
amassing a portfolio in China.

Macquarie and Logos were unavailable for comment.

Eureka set for $1bn deal EUREKA Funds Management is in on course to win a mandate of up to $1
billion from Union Investment Real Estate, a subsidiary of Germany's DZ Bank, as a steady influx of
offshore buyers continues to pursue the relatively high yields on offer in Australia's commercial
property market.

According to sources, Union, with €22bn ($32bn) under management, approached three rival firms
before entering final stage negotiations with Eureka. The scale of the mandate ranges between $500
million and $1bn, as the German institution aims to amass a portfolio of investmentgrade properties in
Sydney, Brisbane, Melbourne and Perth.

Eureka, a $3.7bn funds management business led by industry veteran Bob Kelly, declined to
comment on the mooted deal.

However Union's expansion in Australia follows its $200.6m foray into the market earlier this year with
the acquisition of an office tower development in Brisbane, underlining the comparative appeal of
commercial office yields.
IPH has stellar debut THE staggering lift in the share price of patent attorney firm IPH in its debut
ASX performance yesterday may pave the way for other professional services companies to
capitalise on the buoyant market conditions.

IPH - previously known as Spruson and Ferguson - closed almost 50 per cent higher than its $2.10
listing price, finishing up $1 to $3.10 in weaker trade.
The $488 million business specialises in managing intellectual property rights throughout the
Asia-Pacific region for clients such as Boeing and Facebook, and had attracted strong demand from
fund managers from the start.

A steady earnings growth profile for the business is believed to be a major drawcard.
Reaping a major windfall from the deal will be the firm's owners, who have already cashed out by
selling half the business and have seen their remaining stake lift in value by $122m.

The strong appetite for IPH comes as other initial public offering prospects have recently been
shelved, such as a float of Tasman Lifestyle and that of food distributor Greens, which was
suspended yesterday.
Other firms earmarked for floats next year are MYOB and software firm Wisetech along with Barry
Smorgon's manufacturing company Jalco, which is using investment bank Moelis as adviser for a

Page181of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.potential initial public offering in February next year.The business, which makes supermarket
products, had been working with advisers Grant Samuel for a sale or listing worth around $90m.

pblbme : Nine Entertainment Co. | tiktek : Ticketek Pty Ltd
i831 : Financial Investments | iinv : Investing/Securities | ifinal : Financial Services | i64 :
Retail/Wholesale | i654 : Specialty Stores | imed : Media/Entertainment | iretail : Retail | itick : Ticket
Agents
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | reqris : Suggested Reading Investing/Securities | redit : Selection of
Top Stories/Trends/Analysis | reqr : Suggested Reading Industry News
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South Wales | queensl : Queensland
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020141119eabk0005e

CO
IN

NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page182of273©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.