National Australia Bank accelerates UK exit

HD
BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY

LP

TD

National Australia Bank accelerates UK exit

Jennifer Hughes in Hong Kong
387 words
16 December 2014
15:56
Financial Times (FT.Com)
FTCOM
English
Copyright 2014 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and
redistribute by email or post to the web.

National Australia Bank is selling a £1.2bn portfolio of risky UK commercial property loans to
Cerberus, the US private equity group, as the bank's new chief executive accelerates its British exit.

The Australian Big Four lender has long sought to extract itself from a pre-crisis era expansion into the
UK, where its biggest remaining holdings are the Clydesdale and Yorkshire banks - for which it is
examining options that include a possible initial public offering.

The latest deal builds on £625m parcel of largely non-performing loans that the bank sold to Cerberus
in July.

"This is an important step forward, effectively bringing closure to one of our legacy positions," said
Andrew Thorburn, NAB chief executive.
The portfolio consists of mainly defaulted, risky or high loan-to-value loans, the bank said. The sale
leaves NAB with a small UK portfolio of strong performing loans for which the bank said it would
examine other options.
When completed, Tuesday's sale will release £127m of capital, NAB said, adding that it would no longer
report its UK loan portfolio as a separate line of business.

Mr Thorburn took over in April , well aware of investor impatience with the Australian lender's slow
withdrawal from the UK. Shareholders have urged the bank to focus more on its home markets, viewing
its venture halfway around the world as a costly mistake.
NAB first announced plans to close its UK property arm and dispose of a £5.6bn loan book in 2012,
under then-chief executive Cameron Clyne.

Mr Thorburn said Tuesday's deal was "another important milestone in our strategy of reducing our low
returning legacy assets and sharpening our focus on our core Australian and New Zealand franchises".

Shares in NAB were flat in Sydney afternoon trading, beating a 0.8 per cent slide in the wider market.

The bank has, however, underperformed its Big Four rivals this year, down 10 per cent compared with a
4 per cent gain for Commonwealth Bank, the biggest of the country's banks.

As part of its retreat homewards, NAB in October pulled back from the US via the flotation of 28 per cent
of Great Western Bank, for which it received $288m. Further selldowns are planned over time.

CO
IN

NS

ncbnk : National Australia Bank Ltd
i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ireest : Real Estate | i814 : Banking | icre : Real
Estate/Construction | ifinal : Financial Services
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | c182 : Asset Transactions | c1711 : Initial Public Offerings | c02
: Corporate Changes | c14 : Stock Listings | c17 : Funding/Capital | c171 : Share Capital | c18 :

Page58of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content
Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | namz : North America | uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific
| ausnz : Australia/Oceania | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | weurz : Western Europe
Appointments
CN
The Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)
Document FTCOM00020141216eacg000b5

RE

IPD
IPC
PUB
AN

Page59of251©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.