On-farm dairy venture kicks Fleurieu goals

SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

DAIR
On-farm dairy venture kicks Fleurieu goals

555 words
7 August 2014
Stock Journal
FSTOCJ
47
English
Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.

BARRY Clarke has many reasons to be thankful for being part of the dairy industry.

Dairying has given him a profitable career and a job he enjoys and it has helped to prolong a football
career into his 50s.

While most men Barry's age are thinking about low-impact sports, every second Sunday the SA
dairyfarmer and milk processor dusts off his old football boots and lines up in the local super-rules
competition.

And it does not end there. Three times this year he has helped his old team Myponga-Sellicks when
they've been short on numbers in the B-grade division, adding to his remarkable record of more than
550 A-grade games until he was 47 and 100 B-grade since then.

"I never got many injuries and I think dairyfarming was probably part of that," Barry said.
"As I got older I got stiff and sore but you have to get out of bed and milk the cows, walk around, climb
up and down the steps and carry buckets of milk. It made me better. I had to move around and get rid
of that stiffness and soreness.
"I'm sure it helped more than sitting around on the couch all day."
Barry's dairy career has been equally impressive.

Ten years ago an off-the-cuff remark while on holiday with local farming mates led to a successful
business partnership between Barry and his wife Merridie, Geoff and Louise Hutchinson, and Chris
and Karen Royans.
"We were at Geoff's place at Wallaroo and there was a general conversation about the lousy milk
prices and high input costs and as a throwaway line I said to Geoff we ought to bottle and sell our own
milk.

"Geoff rang me back on the Monday morning and said he'd given Chris a ring and we should have a
crack."

They did have a crack and two years later the first bottles rolled off the production line.
A decade after that first discussion, the Fleurieu Milk Company continues to thrive. The partners own
three farms that supply milk for the processing plant and have recently added a new supplier to the
mix and increased production to process milk Monday to Friday and make yoghurt on Mondays and
Thursdays.
The business has been built around a successful domestic market. It is also getting Australian
Quarantine & Inspection Service accreditation for potential exports.

Page18of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved."We've had enquiries from China, Singapore and Hong Kong, and because the farms are growing
and we've taken on another milk supplier, we're interested in having a look but I wouldn't want export
to be any more than 20 per cent of our income," Mr Clarke said.

"There's still a good domestic market for us. People obviously like the product."

He describes the products as fresh from the cow and pasteurised and packaged on the farm.

"We don't do anything to standardise it," Mt Clarke said. "At different times of the year it will taste a bit
different" that's just the way it is.
"The people who buy it like to know where it comes from and that we treat our calves and cows well."

IN

RE
PUB
AN

i4131 : Non-frozen Dairy Products | i413 : Dairy Products | i41 : Food/Beverages/Tobacco | icnp :
Consumer Goods | ifood : Food Products
saustr : South Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document FSTOCJ0020140806ea8700028

Page19of417©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.