SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

CommercialProperty
Aqualand clears decks to focus on 28-level luxury tower

MAGGIE LU YUEYANG
401 words
14 May 2016
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
38
English
© 2016 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Chinese-backed property developer Aqualand is selling a development site in Chatswood on
Sydney’s lower north shore, as the company focuses on larger developments across the city including
a proposed 28-level tower in North Sydney.
The group has been offloading smaller projects as it advances on projects such as the Woods
Bagot-designed tower in North Sydney that is set to redefine North Sydney’s skyline.

Aqualand’s audacious plan will see the SAP building replaced with a uniquely stepped four-element
complex with about 415 luxury apartments.
To help finance works across its $800 million property portfolio Aqualand will dispose of projects like
Chatswood. That 1142sq m site at 688-692 Pacific Highway is available, although the company is “not
actively” marketing it, Nick Tobin, general manager at Aqualand Projects said.

“We tend to concentrate on much bigger sites. That’s the real reason why we are looking to sell it,” Mr
Tobin said, noting CBRE and Colliers International had been mandated for the disposal.

“We still have it on the market at the moment, and we are still working through the development
application.” There is a two-storey office building and a residential boarding facility on the property.
Aqualand lodged a planning proposal last July for a mixed-use development with two towers above a
two-storey podium. The taller tower will be 11 storeys high and the lower one, five storeys.

Willoughby Council provided “in principle” support for the proposal last December. The plans met with
some opposition from the local community with over 100 residents against the development.
Mr Tobin denied Aqualand was selling the site due to community concerns, and said it would be happy
to develop unless a buyer came up with a good price.
Aqualand, a subsidiary of Shanghai-based Shenglong Group, has been selling down parts of its
property portfolio since late last year. It sold a Perth development site — which can support a $100m
project — to another Chinese company Zone Q, last November, and then offloaded a 4.5 hectare site
in Melrose Park to listed developer Payce for up to $160m earlier this year.The company is now
focused on plans for the North Sydney tower it picked up for $157.5m last year. It will outlay more than
$200m on the mixed use complex.

NS

RE

gplan : Urban Planning/Development | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International
Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New
South Wales

Page1of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.PUB
AN

News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020160513ec5e00070

Search Summary

Text

((chin* or hong kong)) and (

( (residential or site or commercial) and (casino resort or island or hotel or apartment
or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company or board or assets) and
(transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) )

or

( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron or lead
or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or stake or
equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or firm or
company))

or

( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or equity
or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group or firm or
board) and (million* or billion* or B or M))

)

not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall Street
or Forex or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex)

Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found
Timestamp

and re=austr
13/05/2016 to 19/05/2016
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
188
10 October 2017 1:50

Page2of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.