SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Chinese backing for reef casino

SAMANTHA HUTCHINSON, CASINOS
451 words
28 March 2016
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
21
English
© 2016 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Tony Fung’s $8.15 billion Aquis Great Barrier Reef casino and resort at Yorkeys Knob appears to be
inching closer to development, after sealing an alliance with two Chinese-backed groups to provide
development and financial backing.
The Hong Kong-based tycoon has struck a deal with Chinese developer Tandellen and the Chinese
state-owned group CCCC International Holding, with a formal announcement on their involvement in
the Yorkeys Knob project expected within the coming month.

Known as Aquis Great Barrier Reef, the long-awaited project proposes to convert a coastal strip north
of Cairns into a casino, resort and convention centre with eight hotels totalling 7500 rooms, a golf
course and an artificial lake.

CCCC International Holdings first attracted attention in 2015 when it paid more than $1bn to secure the
Leighton Holdings subsidiary of John Holland.
At the time, the group was reported as having deep links to the Chinese ruling party, and a number of
corruption allegations including a debarment from the World Bank.

The World Bank in 2011 announced that due to bid rigging and other practices of an entity CCCCI
acquired in 2006, CCCCI “and all of its subsidiaries” were debarred from participating in World Bank
projects The sanction came after the World Bank investigated corruption in a road project completed in
the Philippines during 2000 to 2007, centring on the actions of subsidiary China Road and Bridge
Corporation. Under the sanction, CCCCI and all its subsidiaries are ineligible to engage in any World
Bank-financed road and bridge projects until January 12 next year.
Aquis is already advancing an alliance with Tandellen and CCCCI at a $40 million site on the Gold
Coast, purchased about a week ago, and a spokesman associated with the group reiterated to The
Australian that the deal had received Foreign Investment Review Board approval.
CCCCI’s John Holland purchase came as part of a broader strategy to grow its engineering and
construction projects, in addition to diversifying into residential and hotel investments with a $1.1bn
budget.

Federal treasurer at the time of the deal Joe Hockey made reference to its World Bank debarment and
noted “I am satisfied that this investment is not contrary to our national interest”.

Mr Fung also owns the nearby International Beach resort on the Gold Coast, in addition to a swag of
sites along the waterfront strip, and was in due diligence to buy the Sheraton Mirage Resort for $160m
but walked away from the deal in December.Cairns Chamber of Commerce chief Deb Hancock and

Page1of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Cairns mayor Bob Manning declined to comment on the revelation of new backers for the Yorkeys
Knob project.

CO
IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

twban : The World Bank
ihotel : Hotel Construction | i97912 : Gambling Industries | i501 : Building Construction | iconst :
Construction | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ilea : Leisure/Arts/Hospitality
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020160327ec3s00032

Search Summary

Text

((chin* or hong kong)) and (

( (residential or site or commercial) and (casino resort or island or hotel or apartment
or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company or board or assets) and
(transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) )

or

( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron or lead
or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or stake or
equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or firm or
company))

or

( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or equity
or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group or firm or
board) and (million* or billion* or B or M))

)

not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall Street
or Forex or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex)

Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found
Timestamp

and re=austr
25/03/2016 to 31/03/2016
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
127
2 October 2017 22:44

Page2of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.