9/17/2017

Factiva

Home

Search

Alerts

Newsletters

News Pages

Companies/Markets

Display Options

+ Related Dow Jones Intelligent Indexing™

Listen to Article

 | 

Share

SE  News
HD  China's New Hope enters Australian vitamin sector

AU  Su-Lin Tan
BY  Su-lin Tan
WC  437 words
PD  7 October 2016
SN  The Australian Financial Review
SC  AFNR
ED  First
PG  14
LA  English
CY  Copyright 2016. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.
LP  The $14 billion Chinese conglomerate New Hope Group has bought 28-year-old vitamin and supplements company Australian NaturalCare from its collapsed

parent group, a move that will result in the company supplying these products to China.

It is one of the first transactions to be funded from the $500 million the company has committed to investments in Australian dairy, healthcare and agriculture.

TD  New Hope opened a new office in Sydney's Martin Place on Thursday to launch its operations formally, and hired former Goldman Sachs banker and UBS

Grocon real estate joint venture's Nick Dowling as chief executive of its new Australian and New Zealand businesses.

"Australia's grasslands are good and its environment is good and so Australia produces quality products," the company's chairman Liu Yonghao said on
Thursday.

"Not only that, it has excellent expertise in managing farms."

Mr Liu said his Australia Fresh Milk Holding joint venture with Australia's billionaire Perich family and their company Leppington Pastoral Company, ASX-listed
Freedom Foods Group and the Moxey Family would continue to invest in Australian dairy companies and farms.

"We are a private company, funded locally," he said.

"Based on our investments so far, we have shown we have brought advantage into Australia, and it has also helped our business and bring benefits to China.

"I can't comment on what happened with Kidman but I can say the investments we have are beneficial to Australia."

New Hope already has backing from corporate Australia.

Mr Liu and Fortescue Metals chairman Andrew Forrest co-chair the Australia Sino One Hundred Year Agricultural and Food Safety Partnership which aims to
promote international trade in Australian agriculture and manufactured food products, with a particular focus on China.

In 2013, the New Hope Industrial Fund acquired a controlling interest in Australia's fourth-largest beef processor Kilcoy Pastoral Company in Queensland for
about $98 million. New Hope's Chinese supply chain has opened up export channels for Kilcoy.

In 2015, Australia Fresh Milk Holding bought one of Australia's largest single-site dairy operations, Moxey family's Moxey Farms, for $80 million. As part of the
transaction the Moxey family also took an interest in the joint venture.

Outside of the agriculture and dairy industries, New Hope has real estate businesses. Its first foray into residential development is a St Leonards apartment
tower in Sydney's north, "The Landmark", which sits side by side to Mirvac's St Leonards Square.

"We will have a second site in nine to 12 months," Mr Liu said.

IN  i010010502 : Dairy Cattle Farming | i0 : Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | i0100105 : Cattle Farming | ilsfarm : Livestock Farming

RE  austr : Australia | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market

Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

PUB  Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited

AN  Document AFNR000020161006eca70000m

UI Ver:98.6.0 Mod:13:30 ID:FWEB9

© 2017 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.  Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Policy

 

https://global-factiva-com.virtual.anu.edu.au/ga/default.aspx

1/1

