9/17/2017

Factiva

Home

Search

Alerts

Newsletters

News Pages

Companies/Markets

Display Options

+ Related Dow Jones Intelligent Indexing™

Listen to Article

 | 

Translate Article | 

Share

SE  MarketWatch
HD  China’s New Hope hungry for $1bn of food assets

AU  Sue Neales
BY  SUE NEALES, Agribusiness
WC  768 words
PD  7 October 2016
SN  The Australian
SC  AUSTLN
ED  Australian
PG  31
LA  English
CY  © 2016 News Limited. All rights reserved.
LP  China’s largest private agribusiness conglomerate, New Hope Group, is on the hunt for food and agricultural assets in Australia.

New Hope Group chairman and billionaire founder Liu Yonghao, in Sydney this week to open his company’s first Australian office, plans to invest more than $1
billion in Australia’s farm, food processing and property sectors in the next three years.

TD  New investments in fish farming and aquaculture, beef feedlots, organic enterprises, food processing and irrigation farming — but not the vast Kidman beef

empire — top New Hope’s shopping list.

Mr Liu, whose personal wealth is estimated at more than $8bn, declined to comment on the recent controversy over the $300 million bid by Chinese company
Shanghai Pengxin to buy the Kidman cattle company, which was vetoed by the federal government. China’s state-owned power distributor State Grid was also
knocked back from buying the NSW power network AusGrid.

But Mr Liu believes the already considerable investment in local food and agricultural assets by his New Hope Group in Australian has won the tacit approval of
the Australian government.

“We feel as a company we have been approved by local authorities (here) for doing the right thing,” Mr Liu said.

“By our investments here we have shown to local authorities that we bring more jobs, employment, market opportunities, capital and tax — and that we invest
in our business to grow and expand with our local partners.

“We are very confident about investing in Australia.” Mr Liu said his preference was to take majority stakes in existing agricultural and food businesses in
partnership with local Australian companies, often leaving existing management in place.

“We are focusing on finding strategic partners that we can invest in and together grow bigger and stronger; often the biggest  limiting factor here is scale.” New
Hope Group bought Australia’s fourth-biggest abattoir, at Kilcoy in southern Queensland, in 2013 and is increasing its annual slaughter capacity through new
investment from 240,000 cattle to more than 500,000. It has also spent more than $100m funding a majority share of Australian Fresh Milk Holdings, the joint
venture company established with the Perich and Moxey dairy families and Freedom Foods to buy and expand the large Moxey Farms intensive dairy
operation in the Lachlan Valley near Forbes.

This year New Hope acquired small online vitamin producer Australian Naturalcare, providing New Hope with its third pillar to export in-demand Australian food
and health products to China.

All three existing businesses are currently being expanded, thanks to significant investment by New Hope to buy more farms and more dairy cows for AFMH,
new Kilcoy processing lines and expansion of its small direct-selling vitamin plant.

Mr Lui said New Hope — which has more than 80,000 employees and annual sales in excess of $15 billion as China’s biggest producer and processor of pork,
chicken, eggs, and stock feed, as well as one of its largest dairy producers — is in Australia for the long term.

“People say we are very diversified with healthcare, property, dairy and meat, but I say no, everything is about the health and wellbeing of people in the end,”
Mr Liu said yesterday.

“That is why Australia is one of our major focus; your farmers are excellent in local expertise and you have some of the best pastures, and clean air, in the
world — we realised we don’t need to have 100 per cent Chinese control and management to produce great milk and other products.” New Hope Group and its
listed subsidiary New Hope Liuhe — headed by Mr Liu’s daughter Angela — is also a key player in the joint Australia-China ASA 100 group, championed by
Australian mining and beef entrepreneur Andrew “Twiggy” Forrest.

The group has won approval to establish a bonded China-Australia food and agricultural Free Trade Zone on the Zhoushan Island, adjacent to deepwater
Ningbo Port and across the Gulf from Shanghai.

Mr Liu said his vision was for the special Sino-Australian agricultural export Free Trade Zone to become a food processing hub, with companies like New Hope
able to ship their Australian food produce direct to Zhoushan for processing, before it was sold into China or exported to other regions such as Europe, North
America and Southeast Asia.

China’s food demand is expected to escalate sharply over the next few decades as its population soars and becomes more affluent.Mr Liu was emphatic that
China’s degraded soils, pollution and urbanisation made food self-sufficiency impossible.

IN  i0 : Agriculture

RE  austr : Australia | china : China | sydney : Sydney | zheji : Zhejiang | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater

China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | nswals : New South Wales

https://global-factiva-com.virtual.anu.edu.au/ga/default.aspx

1/2

9/17/2017

PUB  News Ltd.

AN  Document AUSTLN0020161006eca70002m

UI Ver:98.6.0 Mod:13:30 ID:FWEB9

Factiva

© 2017 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.  Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Policy

 

https://global-factiva-com.virtual.anu.edu.au/ga/default.aspx

2/2

