SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

PrimeSpace
GPT eyes $2.1bn retail pipeline

MAGGIE LU YUEYANG
545 words
22 September 2016
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
29
English
© 2016 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Diversified property giant GPT Group has identified a $2.1 billion development pipeline for its retail
portfolio including residential and mixed-use projects at key shopping centres.

With a low gearing of about 23 per cent, GPT has been seeking opportunities to invest with chief
executive Bob Johnston steering a strategy looking at the group’s existing portfolio for organic growth
rather than adding to the portfolio though acquisitions.

The group managed $8.2bn worth of retail assets across Australia as at June, including shopping
centres held on GPT’s balance sheet as well as an investment in the GPT Wholesale Shopping
Centre Fund (GWSCF).

The $2.1bn increase in value would mainly come from the repositioning of current shopping centres
through expansion and the introduction of new tenants, the group said yesterday in a market update.

“The potential $2.1bn development pipeline across our retail portfolio gives excellent opportunities to
deliver strong investment returns and enhance the experience of our assets for our customers,” GPT
chief operating officer Mark Fookes said.

The group confirmed the “town centre” development potential for its Highpoint shopping centre in the
west of Melbourne that will include hotels, residential towers, health facilities and a university.

GPT has not submitted a development application as yet, but was exploring options to redevelop the
centre, co-owned by the listed group, the $3.9bn GWSCF and the Besen family’s Highpoint Property
Group.

GPT injected $157 million into GWSCF last week, lifting its stake from 20.2 per cent to 25.3 per cent
and further increasing its exposure to several strongly performing regional shopping centres including
Highpoint.

Another property with “town centre” potential was GPT’s Rouse Hill centre in Sydney’s northwest, with
Mr Johnston earlier indicating that the entire Rouse Hill redevelopment could also yield about 1000
homes.

GPT sold two sites at Rouse Hill earlier this year to Chinese developer AUX Group that can yield 152
apartments. The group may also seek joint venture partners to develop future residential projects,
according to Mr Johnston. “We are not planning to be a residential developer, but would look to sell or
partner,” Mr Johnston told The Australian in May.

Page1of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The group has recently brought experienced residential executive Penny Lloyd on board as
development director, residential for the retail portfolio.

The move echoes the ongoing trend to develop mixed-use complexes including retail, residential and
other service-based offers as “people are valuing their time and seeking to live in connected walkable
communities”, GPT said.

On the retail front, GPT will look to attract more international mini majors, such as H&M and Uniqlo, as
the group sees continuing demand from these groups and growth in leisure-based apparel. It recently
brought H&M to the Wollongong Central shopping centre, after opening an international retail offering
at the Charlestown Square in NSW’s Hunter region in July.

An entertainment and leisure precinct was opened at its Casuarina Square in Darwin in July, as the
group looks to enhance the food offering at its malls.GPT and Lend Lease-managed Australian Prime
Property Fund Retail last month announced a $400m redevelopment of the Sunshine Plaza, which
they jointly own on the Sunshine Coast.

gnprop : GPT Group
i6560011 : Shopping Malls/Superstores | i5010022 : Residential Building Construction | i501 : Building
Construction | i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i656 : Mixed Retailing | iconst : Construction | icre : Real
Estate/Construction | iretail : Retail | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150206 : Closed-end
Funds/Investment Trusts | i815020602 : Real Estate Investment Trusts | ifinal : Financial Services |
iinv : Investing/Securities | ireest : Real Estate
cacqu : Acquisitions/Mergers | c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Divestments |
cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020160921ec9m00001

CO
IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Page2of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.