9/20/2017

Factiva

Home

Search

Alerts

Newsletters

News Pages

Companies/Markets

LIVE HELP

Display Options

+ Related Dow Jones Intelligent Indexing™

Listen to Article

 | 

Translate Article | 

Share

SE  PrimeSpace
HD  Charter Hall divests two towers

AU  Maggie Lu Yueyang
BY  MAGGIE LU YUEYANG
WC  376 words
PD  15 December 2016
SN  The Australian
SC  AUSTLN
ED  Australian
PG  26
LA  English
CY  © 2016 News Limited. All rights reserved.
LP  The unlisted Charter Hall Office Trust has reaped more than $230 million from selling Avaya House in Sydney and another office tower in Melbourne’s St Kilda

Road precinct to Asian developers.

The Australian flagged last month that China’s Shimao Group and Sydney-based developer B1 Group were undertaking exclusive due diligence to buy Avaya
House.

TD  The sale was confirmed by Charter Hall yesterday, with the value revealed to be $118m at a yield of 6.1 per cent. Simon Fenn and Graeme Russell and CI

Australia’s Bevan Kenny and Chris Veitch brokered the sale.

The 10-level, A-grade building at 123 Epping Road, North Ryde, is mainly occupied by Avaya Australia. The asset was fiercely contested on the back of
Macquarie Park’s residential boom, which has recently drawn local giant Meriton and Chinese-backed group JQZ.

Shimao, controlled by billionaire Hui Wing Mau, has emerged as a major backer of local developer B1, headed by Chinese-born chairman Anne Bi, which has
projects in Sydney’s Parramatta, Burwood, Epping and Erskineville.

“Shimao’s last purchase in Sydney was 175 Liverpool Street that is earmarked for a luxury residential conversion and the Macquarie Park area carries similar
possibilities,” said Mr Fenn, noting the strong demand for apartments and hotels in the precinct.

In Melbourne, the trust has sold the office tower at 5 Queens Road to a unit of Singaporean developer Tong Eng Group for $116.3m.

The 11-storey tower, located opposite Albert Park, comprises a net lettable area of 17,449sq m and is anchored by major tenants including Unico Computer
Systems, Beca and Shape.

The sale was managed by CBRE’s Michael Andrews, Luke Etherington and Kiran Pillai and Colliers International’s Leigh Melbourne and Nick Rathgeber.

The buildings were seen as non-core assets by the Charter Hall fund.“These non-core divestments provide an opportunity to improve the quality and size of
our underlying portfolio which is weighted towards core CBD assets, strong tenant covenants and long leases,” Charter Hall Office Trust fund manager Trent
James said. “This transaction also reconfirms the group’s focus on being an active seller in order to further enhance returns for our capital partners.”

CO  avyinc : Avaya Inc | avayhc : Avaya Holdings Corp

IN  i3441 : Telecommunications Technology/Equipment | itech : Technology

NS  ccat : Corporate/Industrial News

RE  austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | sydney : Sydney | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New South Wales

PUB  News Ltd.

AN  Document AUSTLN0020161214eccf0001f

UI Ver:98.6.0 Mod:13:30 ID:FWEB8

© 2017 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.  Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Policy

 

https://global.factiva.com/ga/default.aspx

1/1

