SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Pembroke buys $104m Peabody coal projects

Matt Chambers MINING
510 words
11 May 2016
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
22
English
© 2016 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Peabody Energy Australia has sold a suite of Bowen Basin coking coal projects to the private
equity-backed Pembroke Resources for $104 million, in a move that will provide a further buffer
from the pressures of Peabody’s bankrupt US parent.
It is the first purchase from Sydney-based Pembroke, which is run by former Gloucester Coal chief
Barry Tudor and owned by the Boston-based Denham Capital Group.

Pembroke will pay a total of $120m plus a royalty for the assets, some of which will go to Peabody’s
partner in the projects, China’s Citic Resources, The sale comes with Peabody Energy, the world’s
biggest private sector coal company, in Chapter 11 bankruptcy in the US, but its Australian assets
excluded.

But as revealed in The Australian last month, Peabody Australia is subject to potential cash calls
related to the US operations that make it uncertain whether it can continue as a going concern.
The $104m received from the sale to Pembroke will add to a $US250m ($340.6m) loan facility
provided by the parent company last month to provide working capital and liquidity.
Over the weekend, Peabody released March quarter results showing its Australian operations were
making cash overall but that its coking coalmines, which account for about half of production, were
now out of the money.

So while Peabody’s Australian thermal coalmines made earnings before interest, tax, depreciation
and amortisation of $US42.9m, down from $US48.3m a year earlier, coking coal reported a $US37m
loss, down from a $US13.6m profit a year earlier.

Peabody would not comment on the prospects for the coking coalmines. “Peabody will continue to
evaluate opportunities to reshape its platform to best compete in key regions,” a spokeswoman said.

“We have said publicly many times that the Australian assets represent a core region with excellent
access to high demand Asia markets through both our thermal and metallurgical platform.”
Pembroke, formed in May 2014 with a $US200m spending limit from Denham, gave no information
on its plans for the projects, but is expected to provide a better idea in coming months.
“Pembroke will continue to assess other acquisition and development opportunities as it seeks to
further build out its portfolio of high quality metallurgical coal assets,” the company said.

The tenements are known as the Olive Downs complex and comprise the Olive Downs South, Olive
Downs North and Willunga deposits acquired in Peabody’s 2011 takeover of Macarthur Coal.

Page1of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.According to the takeover documents, in 2011 Olive Downs North was the most advanced project,
with 11.6 million tonnes of coal reserves and 93 million tonnes of resources.
The resources are primarily pulverised coal injection (PCI) coal, which Macarthur was built on. Olive
Downs South (coking coal, PCI and thermal coal) and Willlunga (PCI and thermal) had not been
proved up enough to report reserves but had a combined resource of 515 million tonnes.Peabody
has reported its share of the ground had resources of 165 million short tons.

CO

IN

NS
RE
PUB
AN

pbdy : Peabody Energy Corp | seawd : CITIC Resources Holdings Ltd | citic : CITIC Group
Corporation
i1 : Energy | i111 : Coal Mining | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources |
iexplo : Natural Gas/Oil Exploration | imet : Mining/Quarrying
c11 : Plans/Strategy | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020160510ec5b0001w

Search Summary

Text

((chin* or hong kong)) and (

( (residential or site or commercial) and (casino resort or island or hotel or apartment
or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company or board or assets) and
(transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) )

or

( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron or lead
or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or stake or
equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or firm or
company))

or

( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or equity
or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group or firm or
board) and (million* or billion* or B or M))

)

not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall Street
or Forex or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex)

Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found
Timestamp

and re=austr
06/05/2016 to 12/05/2016
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
166
9 October 2017 21:58

Page2of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.