9/28/2017
Metals and Mining
Company Overview of Resources & Energy Group Limited

Resources & Energy Group Limited: Private Company Information - Bloomberg

September 28, 2017 5:13 AM ET

Snapshot

 

People

Company Overview
Resources & Energy Group Limited engages in the
exploration and development of gold and silver
deposits in Australia. It holds interest in Radio Gold
mine located in Bullfinch, Western Australia; and
Mount Mackenzie mine located in Rockhampton,
Queensland. The company was founded in 2005 and
is based in Sydney, Australia.

Key Executives For Resources & Energy Group Limited
Mr. Richard J. Poole B. Juris, LLB, B.
Comm. ASIA
Chief Executive Officer and Director
Age: 54 Total Annual Compensation: A$52.8K

Mr. James Croser
Chief Operating Officer and Director
Total Annual Compensation: A$33.3K

Compensation as of Fiscal Year 2016.

Phone:

61 2 9227
8900
61 2 9227 8901

Fax:
www.rezgroup.com.au

52 Martin Place
Level 33
Colonial Centre
Sydney, NSW 2000
Australia

Founded in 2005

Resources & Energy Group Limited Key Developments
Resources & Energy Group Ltd Announces the Successful Removal of First Ore from
the Radio Mine
Sep 21 17
Resources & Energy Group Ltd. announced the successful removal of first ore from the Radio mine and the
first mining at Radio since 1974. This is a significant and major step forward, proving the mines operational
capability, the outstanding quality of the old existing workings and showcasing the Radio team's capabilities
and quality. Operations at Radio have continued to develop at pace and REZ has received regulatory
approval for the Stage 2 Project Management Plan expansion of mining activities. This has allowed REZ to
commence mining of bulk sample locations. Development is now well underway on a 29-metre scraper drive
linking the southern edge of historic stoping on the 9 Level to an ore chute adjacent to the 10 Level shaft.
This drive will form the bottom access for a panel of East Lode ore estimated to be approximately 2,100
tonnes. This mining panel bounds the southern-most extent of the historical East Lode on the 9 Level
horizon. This is the first mining at Radio since 1974. The East lode itself, remains relatively untouched to the
south between the 9 Level up to the 5 Level and represents an excellent opportunity for extensions to this
initial panel. Mine rehabilitation is also proceeding well in conjunction with the East Lode panel setup,
including removal of historic mine spoil & mud to facilitate access to mine further bulk sample panels in
coming months. The initial first ore removed from the mine is a mix of high and low-grade material including
some mine spoil. This first ore is estimated at 4-500 tonnes and will be processed offsite in early October
2017. The completion and commissioning of the onsite Radio Mine gravity processing plant is also ongoing.
The crushing system has been completed and is undergoing commissioning. The plant is anticipated to be
fully operational in 1-2 months.

Resources & Energy Group Limited Announces Radio High Grade Sampling Results
Jul 31 17
Resources & Energy Group Limited announced that the development of its Radio mine in Western Australia
continues to achieve high grade sampling. During June and July geological sampling of the historical
underground mine areas has been undertaken at key areas to pinpoint bulk sample locations that are
accessible and adjacent to the shaft haulage. Assays results have confirmed the high-grade, nuggetty nature
of the Radio lodes and broadly confirm those obtained when Radio was last dewatered and sampled by Carn
https://www.bloomberg.com/research/stocks/private/snapshot.asp?privcapId=21811670

1/2

Resources & Energy Group Limited: Private Company Information - Bloomberg

9/28/2017
Brae in 1991. Significant results from the recent sampling are summarized in the table below. From this work
three main locations have been identified which will form the initial mining blocks. Geotechnical assessment
of the underground workings has revealed excellent rock mass conditions, with existing stopes and drives in
the vicinity of the anticipated mining activities displaying very good geotechnical characteristics and little
degradation. The rock mass is not heavily jointed, with generally only 2 sets observed being tightly healed &
rough. Existing timbering and rock pillars display little or no stress and although calculated from a small data
set, it is anticipated that a calculated hydraulic radii >10 will support large, stable stoping blocks. The base of
the Radio open pit has been cleared of rock and mud to expose the underlay shaft collar, thus providing flow-
through natural ventilation of approximately 5m3 per second down the underlay shaft then through the old
workings and up the vertical shaft. Rehabilitation and fit-out of the underlay shaft will continue in conjunction
with development activities to be utilized as a secondary mine egress. The surface magazine installation is
complete to relevant standards and ready to receive mining explosives. Installation of the crushing circuit is
underway with positioning of the jaw crusher, hammer mill, conveyors and bins almost complete. Electrical
connections have been run and an automated panel installed in the hoist operators room to control ore
movement from the headframe all the way to the 40 tonne fine ore bin, providing for single person operation
of the ore haulage and crushing systems. The September 2017 quarter will see completion of the gravity
plant and commencement of mining activities underground.

Resources & Energy Group Limited Announces Commencement of Radio Sampling at
Western Australia Radio Mine
May 24 17
Resources & Energy Group Limited announced that the development of its Radio mine in Western Australia
has reached an important milestone. Dewatering has been completed and initial sampling from areas
adjacent to the main shaft at levels 8, 9 and 10 has yielded positive results. The dewatering of Radio has
been completed to level 10 and initial rock chip sampling has been undertaken in the development faces,
stoping areas and from loose rock in mine drives. Sampling undertaken from selected lode exposures and
broken floor rock immediately adjacent to the 10 level shaft access yielded the following significant assays
54.2g/t   9 Level Footwall Lode, 34.3g/t   8 Level East Lode, 26.0g/t   9 to 10 Level Chute grabs, 12.6g/t   9
Level Footwall Lode. Work continues with a systematic lode sampling program under development to identify
initial bulk stoping mining locations, and provide high quality information for resource modelling. Mine
services have now been installed underground, the refurbishment of the shaft including all ladders has been
completed and the skip installed in the main shaft. The head frame and man-riding hoist is undergoing final
commissioning in preparation for final regulatory approval. Assembly of a processing plant is proceeding to
plan and targeting removal of bulk samples in June with processing of initial sample ore in July.

Recent Private Companies Transactions
Type 
Date
Merger/Acquisition 
November 22, 2016

Target

Kidman Resources Limited,
Burbanks Gold Mine

Similar Private Companies By Industry
Company Name
3E Steel Pty Limited
888 Resources Limited
A1Consolidated Pty Ltd.
Aard Metals Limited
AAT Corporation Limited

Region
Asia
Asia
Asia
Asia
Asia

Request Profile Update

\

https://www.bloomberg.com/research/stocks/private/snapshot.asp?privcapId=21811670

2/2

