10/7/2017

Factiva

Home

Search

Alerts

Newsletters

News Pages

Companies/Markets

Display Options

+ Related Dow Jones Intelligent Indexing™

Listen to Article

 | 

Share

SE  Companies and Markets
HD  Rio says coal assets staying

AU  James Chessell, Peter Ker
BY  James Chessell and Peter Ker
WC  595 words
PD  16 April 2016
SN  The Australian Financial Review
SC  AFNR
ED  First
PG  39
LA  English
CY  Copyright 2016. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.
LP  Resources

Rio Tinto says it has no plans to sell its remaining Australian coal mines and argues the world will rely on coal for a "long time", despite the woes of US giant
Peabody and more divestments by Norway's sovereign wealth fund further eroding confidence in the sector.

TD  Fronting Rio's annual meeting in London on Thursday, chairman Jan du Plessis was asked whether the decision by Peabody to file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy

protection earlier this week would prompt the Anglo-Australian mining giant to reconsider its coal operations in Hunter Valley, NSW and Queensland.

Mr du Plessis told shareholders the company's remaining operations were low-cost "tier 1" assets and remained a "key part" of the miner's portfolio of
operations.

Rio's Australian coal division produces thermal coal used for electricity generation as well as coking coal used to make steel at mines such as Hail Creek near
Mackay and Mount Thorley Warkworth near Singleton.

However, the business has shrunk in recent years as Rio offloaded less profitable and more environmentally sensitive operations. These included the $US224
million sale of the undeveloped Mount Pleasant thermal coal project in the Hunter Valley in January, the sale of its $US606 million stake in the neighbouring
Bengalla mine in September and the divestment of its 50 per cent stake in the Clermont thermal coal mine in central Queensland for $US1.3 billion in 2013.

"The coal assets we have today in Australia are high class. Certainly what I would say if we ever sell them, we are not going to give them away. We will sell
them at good value," Mr du Plessis said.

"But much more importantly, let me say this. Yes, coal is a fossil fuel with all the carbon consequences that we all acknowledge. But one has to recognise that
for many, many years to come - in particular in poor, developing economies - coal will be the energy source of choice because it [is the] cheapest and because
it is readily available.

"And therefore, in some way, the world, whether we like it or not, we'll be coal-dependent for a long time. They are not for sale. We think they are good assets."

Speaking after the annual meeting, Mr Walsh said there was also a pragmatic rationale for Rio's position in Australia and hinted Rio would still be open to
attractive offers for its coal assets. Mr Walsh, who will be replaced by Jean-Sebastien Jacques in July, said his chairman's words partly reflected "the fact that
there's no one out there with a big chequebook".

"I think that was really what was behind his comments," Mr Walsh said. "The proof is in the pudding. The proof is in putting an attractive offer on the table and
nobody has come forward."

On Friday Rio also announced it will pump more iron ore into its Channar joint venture with China's Sinosteel, ending 17 months of negotiations.

The joint venture will now share 280 million tonnes of iron ore over its 29-year life, after the new agreement allowed for an extra 30 million tonnes per year to
be added to the partnership.

Sinosteel will pay $US45 million to Rio for the privilege and will also pay royalties of up to $US500 million over the five-year extension period.

Key points

The miner says its remaining Australian coal operations are "tier 1" and not for sale.

However, a good unsolicited offer may be considered.

CO  craaus : Rio Tinto Ltd | pbdy : Peabody Energy Corp | rtz : Rio Tinto PLC | rtzcra : Rio Tinto Group

IN  i1 : Energy | i111 : Coal Mining | i211 : Metal Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying

NS  c11 : Plans/Strategy | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News

RE  austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania

PUB  Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited

AN  Document AFNR000020160415ec4g0001h

UI Ver:99.1.0 Mod:22:40 ID:FWEB6

https://global-factiva-com.virtual.anu.edu.au/ga/default.aspx

1/1

© 2017 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.  Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Policy

 

