SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

CommercialProperty
Car park sale revs up casino precinct

Chris Herde
402 words
1 April 2016
Courier Mail
COUMAI
CourierMail
53
English
© 2016 News Limited. All rights reserved.

THE Australian-Chinese consortium behind Brisbane’s $2 billion Queen’s Wharf casino project has
paid about $45 million for the Seymour Group’s Festival Car Park in the heart of the CBD.
The nine-storey building at 45 Charlotte St was part of the group’s three-asset portfolio put on the
market last year.

Knight Frank managing director Queensland, Ben McGrath, who marketed the portfolio with colleague
Justin Bond and JLL’s Geoff McIntyre and Seb Turnbull, said the car park was a “unique opportunity”
in the heart of Brisbane’s CBD.
“With the car park currently leased short term to Secure Parking Australia, it provided investors with
the opportunity to acquire the facility either as a leased investment or for owner operation,” he said.
“The large 1835sq m site also provides future development potential, and with the recent
announcement of the Queens Wharf development and major infrastructure ear-marked for George St,
this will only enhance the value of this precinct.” Echo Entertainment and its partners, Hong-Kong
based business partners Chow Tai Fook and Far East Consortium, will start work on the casino
precinct in late 2016.
JLL managing director Queensland Mr McIntyre said Festival Car Park generated much interest from
domestic and foreign investors.
Continued P54 From P53 Car park sale revs up casino precinct “We were pleased with the number of
high net worth individuals interested in purchasing the property,” he said.
“The proposed Queens Wharf project holds appeal for many foreign investors for existing assets in
this precinct, especially Asian investors.” As Brisbane’s only inner-city stand-alone car park, the
complex includes 429 secured parking bays and a small retail tenancy leased to Hertz Car Rental. The
purchase included the majority ownership of the asset which included 412 car bays and the retail
tenancy improvements.
Of the other two assets in the Seymour portfolio, Singapore’s ARA Asset Management is closing in on
the HSBC office tower at 300 Queen St for about $190 million while the McWhirters Car Park in
Fortitude Valley has been withdrawn from sale.* Meanwhile, Mr McGrath and Mr Bond and JLL’s
Christian Sandstrom and Luke Billiau have sold an A-grade five-level office building at 601 Coronation
Drive, Toowong, for $45 million. The eight-year-old building was bought by Sydney-based syndicator
Capital Property Funds.

Page1of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

i97912 : Gambling Industries | ilea : Leisure/Arts/Hospitality
c182 : Physical Asset Transactions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News
Filter
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document COUMAI0020160331ec410001v

Search Summary

Text

((chin* or hong kong)) and (

( (residential or site or commercial) and (casino resort or island or hotel or apartment
or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company or board or assets) and
(transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) )

or

( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron or lead
or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or stake or
equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or firm or
company))

or

( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or equity
or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group or firm or
board) and (million* or billion* or B or M))

)

not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall Street
or Forex or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex)

Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found
Timestamp

and re=austr
01/04/2016 to 07/04/2016
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
217
3 October 2017 0:04

Page2of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.