SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Dyldam offloading $120m site

MAGGIE LU YUEYANG BEN WILMOT, EXCLUSIVE
328 words
22 August 2016
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
27
English
© 2016 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Western Sydney-based developer Dyldam is poised to sell a prime site at the centre of St Leonards
on Sydney’s north shore just two months after buying it for almost $120 million.

The group could reap a profit as the area has been chased by Chinese developers including Country
Garden and Poly Real Estate, as well local giant Mirvac, with the backing of Ping An Real Estate.

Sitting on a busy strip next to the St Leonards Forum and train station, the site at 88 Christie Street
carries approval for a mixed-use development by PTW architects, with capacity for 777 apartments
and a supermarket and retail precinct.

It took Dyldam more than 10 months to complete the purchase of the site from Garry Rothwell’s
Winten Group after first putting down a deposit.

However, the company is now believed to be looking for buyers for the site across eight properties
on Lithgow Street, Christie Street and the Pacific Highway.

Dyldam declined to comment on the potential sale when contacted by The Australian.

“As one of Australia’s largest property developers we are frequently involved in discussions about
development sites. These discussions are commercial in confidence,” a spokeswoman for Dyldam
said.

“Dyldam does not comment on our purchasing program nor confirm our involvement in a sale or
tender process.” The site is not yet on the market, but Ray White Commercial, CBRE and Colliers
International have been engaged to advise.

Dyldam managing director Sam Fayad has said the site will be developed into a world-class project,
showcasing a 45-level residential tower.

The tower with rooftop pool and cantilevered rooftop promenade will join a public plaza, with a
1000sq m public library to be built by the developer in line with a voluntary planning agreement with
Lane Cove Council.The project could also include a 300sq m supermarket and a 2600sq m
retail/office precinct.

CO
IN

winten : Winten Property Group
ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction

Page1of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.NS

RE

PUB
AN

c182 : Physical Asset Transactions | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat :
Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry
News Filter
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New
South Wales
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020160821ec8m0002t

Page2of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.