SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

CommercialProperty
Sun shines for syndicate

CHRIS HERDE
369 words
5 February 2016
Courier Mail
COUMAI
CourierMail
58
English
© 2016 News Limited. All rights reserved.

A MELBOURNE-BASED Chinese syndicate has snapped up its second Queensland retail asset,
paying $19.75 million for a Sunshine Coast shopping centre.

The syndicate bought the Coolum Park Shopping Centre, on South Coolum Rd, after an expressions
of interest campaign run by CBRE’s Rem Rafter, Craig O’Donnell and Nick Willis.

Mr Rafter said the campaign for the Woolworths-anchored neighbourhood shopping centre attracted
67 inquiries and 11 offers with three parties short-listed.

“We had a massive response and it was spread evenly between wealthy private investors and smaller
funds,” he said.
The single-level neighbourhood centre with a gross lettable area of 4044sq m is on a 1.85ha site.
With one small vacancy at the point of sale the deal realised a yield of 6 per cent on passing income.
On a fully let basis the yield was 6.75 per cent.

The centre was developed by Watpac and started trading in 2004. According to CoreLogic RP Data it
last changed hands in 2012 for $15.7 million. Mr Rafter said demand for Coles and
Woolworths-anchored neighbourhood centres was “unprecedented”. “At this point in time my gut
feeling is that yields will tighten even further in 2016,” he said.

“I think the Asian influence has pushed those yields down a bit but, if you can borrow money at 4 or
4.5 per cent and these centres are selling for a yield of 6 and 6.5 per cent, that’s a good differential.”
Mr O’Donnell, who is CBRE’s national director, retail services, said the same Melbourne-based
syndicate last year paid $10.5 million for a two-level retail complex in the Ormeau Town Centre, on
the Gold Coast.
He said last year offshore investors, mostly Asian, accounted for 25 per cent of the $9 billion-plus
retail asset transactions.

“We’re expecting a large volume of transactions this year,” he said.“I think we will have a strong year
in Queensland. We’ve been lagging a little bit on the back of the mining pullback but that is improving
and more people will take the opportunity to recycle capital into bigger assets.”

iretail : Retail | i64 : Retail/Wholesale
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News

IN
NS
Page 1 of 2 © 2017 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

RE
PUB
AN

queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | austr : Australia
News Ltd.
Document COUMAI0020160204ec2500001

Search Summary

Text

Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found
Timestamp

((chin* or hong kong)) and ( ( (residential or site or commercial) and (casino resort or
island or hotel or apartment or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or
company or board or entitys) and (transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) ) or
( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron or lead
or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or stake or
equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or firm or
company)) or ( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or
sale or equity or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or
group or firm or board) and (million* or billion* or B or M)) ) not (terrorism or war or
navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall Street or Forex or Stock
Exchange or rst=asxtex) and re=austr
05/02/2016 to 11/02/2016
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
197
18 September 2017 20:07

Page 2 of 2 © 2017 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

