SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Market Wrap - Street Talk
NSW to dispatch Endeavour Energy documents this week

Edited by Sarah Thompson, Anthony Macdonald and Joyce Moullakis
454 words
20 December 2016
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
14
English
Copyright 2016. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

In an early Christmas gift for bankers, NSW is poised to send the information memorandum for the
sale of a stake in its last power asset, Endeavour Energy, as first reported by Street Talk on Monday.

Interested parties are in the process of forming groups to bid for 50.4 per cent of Endeavour, the
state's second-biggest electricity distributor. The auction is expected to raise about $4 billion based
on the prices paid for the earlier two sales, transmission grid owner TransGrid and the state's main
distributor, Ausgrid.

The sale documents, expected to land by the week's end, will outline more detail around the assets
ahead of formal due diligence kicking off early next year.

Key members from the successful bid group for TransGrid, including Hastings Funds Management
and Spark Infrastructure, are expected to re-form for the Endeavour process, although doubts
surround the participation of their co-investors, funds from Canada and the Middle East.

QIC Ltd is also expected to table an offer, potentially together with AMP, although that group has yet
to firm up. This column understands QIC fielded pitches from investment banks over the past week
as firms seek to secure mandates ahead of year's end.

China's State Grid Corporation, one of the bidders for Ausgrid that was knocked back by the Foreign
Investment Review Board, is understood to be interested in Endeavour, but requires a local partner.
Cheung Kong Infrastructure, the other rejected Ausgrid bidder, is not expected to participate given its
$7.3 billion cash tilt for listed player DUET Group.

With more than 2500 employees and 0.9 million end customers, Endeavour owns a distribution
network that supplies Sydney, the Blue Mountains, Southern Highlands and Illawarra regions. Its
circa 35,000 kilometres of cables lie above and below ground.

Suitors will need to submit expressions of interest for the electricity distributor by January 16, state
Treasurer Gladys Berejiklian said when kicking off the privatisation process last month.

Prospective bidders were informed of rules around overseas participation, with no single overseas
bidder able to own more than half the 50.4 per cent stake being offered under a 99-year lease, as
revealed by Street Talk.

Other rules stipulate that at least 20 per cent of Endeavour will need to be held by an Australian
entity, and at least three senior managers need to be Australian citizens with requisite security

Page1of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.clearance, according to sources. Local board representation will also be closely scrutinised and the
chair needs to be independent.

UBS and Deutsche Bank are advising the NSW government on the sale.

CO

IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

hasfml : Hastings Funds Management Limited | queeic : Queensland Investment Corporation | tastr :
TransGrid | wstpac : Westpac Banking Corporation Limited
i1 : Energy | i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i16101 : Electric Power Generation | i81502 :
Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150211 : Unit Trusts/Mutual Funds | ieutil : Electric Utilities | ifinal
: Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities | iutil : Utilities
c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Divestments | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | c18 : Ownership
Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E
Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020161219ecck0000a

Page2of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.