SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Bowling site for sale

ALISTER THOMSON
378 words
9 September 2016
Gold Coast Bulletin
GCBULL
GoldCoast
50
English
© 2016 News Limited. All rights reserved.

A PROPERTY that for more than three decades has played host to tenpin bowling venue Go Bowling
Ashmore has been put to market wearing a $5 million price tag.

The 20-lane bowling venue, along with a pro-shop and cafe, is housed in a building with 1950sq m of
floorspace on a 5882sq m parcel at 137 Currumburra Rd.

It was established in 1985 by the late Roy West and wife Silvia after Mr West quit a senior executive
role with tenpin bowling specialist AMF, a company that operates numerous venues across Australia.

The property is being offered to the market by Stephen and Kerrie Pengly who have held it for 15
years.

They purchased it from an entity associated with the Wests in 2001 for $1.2 million through company
vehicle Sleeping Dog.

Mr Pengly was a competitive bowler at time of purchase and the couple acquired the business with the
property.

In 2007 they sold the business, which is now run by Paul Simkus and Ken Gausden who hold the
property under a lease that expires in January when a five-year option is exercisable.

Marketing agent Joseph Codianni, of Real Commercial Qld, said the property has drawn strong early
inquiry, attracting Japanese and Chinese investors as well as Brisbane and Gold Coast interests.

Mr Codianni said much of the interest is from parties attracted by the property’s redevelopment
potential.

“As the tenant is on a long-term lease, many parties are looking at it as a land-banking opportunity for
redevelopment down the track,” he said.

The land carries a sport and recreation zoning and is subject to a three-storey height limit.

Mr Codianni said the bowling venue’s operators had advised their intention to take up the five-year
option.

The rental income of $373,304 is due to rise to $384,500 next year and the tenant meets all outgoings.

Go Bowling Ashmore has played host to a number of league tournaments and recently staged the
2016 Queensland Junior Cup.It is one of five bowling centres on the Gold Coast. Others are AMF

Page1of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Robina, Strike Bowling Bar at Surfers Paradise, Surfers Paradise Tenpin Bowling, and Tenpin Bowling
Gold Coast at Tweed Heads.

NS

RE
PUB
AN

gtenp : Tenpin Bowling | gspo : Sports/Recreation | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce :
C&E Exclusion Filter | nrgn : Routine General News
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document GCBULL0020160908ec990001c

Page2of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.