SE
HD
BY

WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
DATAROOM

EDITED BY: Bridget Carter carterb@theaustralian.com.au Gretchen Friemann
friemanng@theaustralian.com.au
1,100 words
8 April 2016
The Australian
AUSTLN
Australian
20
English
© 2016 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Woolies seeks exit from home hardware game Suitors for Woolworths’ loss-making hardware chain,
Masters, along with its smaller but profitable DIY business, Home Timber & Hardware, have been
given until May 2 to lodge bids as the supermarket group attempts to draw a line under its disastrous
foray into the sector.

As first revealed by DataRoom, Woolworths adviser Citi distributed an information memorandum at the
end of last week to a string of potential investors spanning trade buyers, private equity firms, and a
large number of listed and unlisted real estate players.

The sales documents, seen by The Australian, underscore Masters was cashflow negative at the end
of the first half, to the tune of $324.6 million, while its net assets are worth $2.5 billion.

The dire straits of the big box retailer’s balance sheet has deterred many prospective bidders and
prompted predictions the chain will be flogged off as a property play with New York-based
Blackstone, Charter Hall Group and Abacus Property Group all widely touted as contenders for the
portfolio.

Trade buyers, too, are pursuing a handful of sites. The Australian recently reported that US giant
Costco has at least four outlets in its sights and it is understood Melbourne-based Spotlight will
attempt to prise off some stores, as will Masters’ rival Bunnings.

Yet while the Masters business looks doomed, Home Timber & Hardware has lured in a string of eager
suitors. Metcash’s home improvement chain, Mitre 10, which is advised by Luminis Partners, is a
well-known contender for the hybrid retailer and wholesaler, although a number of private equity firms
are also in the mix.

Plumber taps the cash Reliance Worldwide Corporation is planning to tap public market investors for
up to $900 million, more money than initially expected as part of its initial public offering plans.

It is understood Reliance is targeting a raise of between $800m and $900m — higher than the $600m
to $800m that had been suggested elsewhere. The Munz family behind Reliance is believed to be
looking at retaining between 30-40 per cent of Reliance following the IPO.

A prospectus is expected to be released next week, coinciding with a global roadshow.

The global business, which operates across the US and Australia, has proved popular with prospective
investors following a round of meetings this week with analysts from investment banks JPMorgan and

Page1of3©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Macquarie, joint lead managers to the deal. Evans & Partners, and Ord Minnett and Morgans are also
involved.

Reliance’s exposure to the recovering US housing market is a key focus for potential investors with
many concentrating on a weather-related potential earnings boon.
Apparently, one small concern about the business has been the company’s exposure to the housing
market in the US, but icy winter conditions in parts of the country have caused pipes to freeze, creating
some lucrative opportunities for the business.Some earnings forecasts may also be altered due to the
substantial currency movements between the Australian and US dollars.

Reliance is on track to rank as one of the largest IPOs of the year. Its value is estimated to fall
between $1.2bn to $1.44bn by JPMorgan – a multiple of 18 to 22.4 times forecast annual earnings.
SA mulls registry sale The South Australian government appears to be about to move forward on
plans for a sale of its land registry business.
Accounting firmPricewaterhouseCoopers is working on a scoping study for a potential divestment and
an adviser for a sale is about to be appointed.

While the valuation of the service is unclear, some sources believe annual earnings could be as much
as $100m.

This implies a value as high as $800m.
The move comes after the state previously flagged the sale of other government-owned assets was
on the agenda, including parts of its commercial real estate portfolio.

States started moving to consider a divestment of land registry services last year in a period of strong
demand for residential real estate in parts of Australia.

This was in the hope they could secure lucrative windfalls from the divestments to pay down debt and
fund infrastructure projects.
Should the South Australian government opt for a sale, it could well join the NSW and Victorian
governments, which have been advancing on plans for a potential spin-off of their land registry
businesses, which provide a central record of all the land in the state.
Such offerings are likely to be highly attractive to a firm such as RPData, which currently secures
earnings selling sale price information from its database of residential properties in Queensland and
NSW.
An acquisition of the land registries in the states of NSW, Victoria and South Australia would offer
very valuable opportunities for the company to expand its database.
However, the country’s largest private real estate information and analysis provider, which is owned
by Core Logic out of the US, previously denied it was considering a purchase of the NSW land
registry business, which is being handled by JPMorgan for a potential privatisation.

Other potential buyers for all three include database providers such as Veda or SAI Global.
Cura Day looks crook Attempts to sell Cura Day Hospital Group could be fading, with sources
suggesting prospective buyers are not prepared to meet the vendor’s pricing expectations.

While Cura Day is not officially on the market, the understanding is that the business has called on the
services of adviser Rothschild, which has been sounding out prospective acquirers.
Among those that had shown some interest was the listed Virtus Health, while private equity firms
such as Bain Capital, Pacific Equity Partners, Archer Capital and Champ were sure to be in the mix.

However, they have been unprepared to pay what the owner, Intermediate Capital Australia, was
hoping for, sources said.
The sale of private hospital operator Healthe Care to China’s Luye Medical for $938m has raised
expectations of pricing for hospital assets.
That deal was expected to be finalised this week, although many in the market doubt the transaction
would be completed.

Page2of3©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Meanwhile, a key focus for prospective buyers of Nature’s Care will be the company’s heavy reliance
on Chemist Warehouse as a key customer.It will be interesting to gauge the level of appetite for the
business from groups in China that are being targeted as possible acquirers, given that the business
has a substantial offering of skin care products and vitamins that are sought after by Chinese buyers.

abap : Abacus Property Group | chhaus : Charter Hall Group | hydhpt : Hydrox Holdings Pty Ltd |
wolwth : Woolworths Limited
i64 : Retail/Wholesale | i641 : Food Retailing | i6411 : Supermarkets/Grocery Stores | i654 : Specialty
Stores | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | i8150206 : Closed-end Funds/Investment Trusts |
i815020602 : Real Estate Investment Trusts | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | i85 : Real Estate
Transactions | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | icre : Real Estate/Construction | ifinal : Financial
Services | iinv : Investing/Securities | ireest : Real Estate | iretail : Retail
cacqu : Acquisitions/Mergers | c18 : Ownership Changes | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Divestments |
cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva
Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter
austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document AUSTLN0020160407ec480003o

CO

IN

NS

RE
PUB
AN

Search Summary

Text

((chin* or hong kong)) and (

( (residential or site or commercial) and (casino resort or island or hotel or apartment
or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company or board or assets) and
(transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) )

or

( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron or lead
or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or stake or
equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or firm or
company))

or

( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or equity
or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group or firm or
board) and (million* or billion* or B or M))

)

not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall Street
or Forex or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex)

Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found
Timestamp

and re=austr
08/04/2016 to 14/04/2016
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
276
3 October 2017 13:00

Page3of3©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.