Airport Could Be Ray Of Sunshine For Investors

307 words
4 August 2016
Trans Tasman Political Alert
TMRTPL
English
(c) 2016 The Main Report Publications Ltd

A top line up of Australian infrastructure investors is thought to be lining up for the opportunity to buy
Sunshine Coast airport. The airport is expected to fetch at least $500m - among those interested is IFM,
which may bid with Palisade. The two companies jointly own Darwin Airport through the Airport
Development Group, and are likely to vie for Sunshine Coast through the same entity.

Queensland Airports Group is working with Grant Samuel on its attempts to buy the asset, while AMP
Capital, which is also an airport investor, is said to be a contender along with Colonial First State and the
Queensland Investment Corporation. The Northern Queensland Airports Group is also expected to be in
the mix.It owns Cairns Airport and is controlled by a consortium which includes ILF Cairns Mackay
Investment, The Private Capital Group’s TIF, Perron Investments, Auckland International Airport and
Mackay Airport.

HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

A number of prospective investors are looking to firm up details of exactly what will be for sale before
lodging any bid. The airport, currently owned by the local council, is considering building an additional
runway, which will cost $374m to develop. It operates 24 hours and handles about 87,000 aircraft
movements and up to a million passengers annually. The sale comes after Port Hedland Airport was
sold last year to AMP and ICG. Annual ebitda is about $10m.

Meanwhile, as China Huadian remains the front runner to buy the bulk of TPG Capital’s $3bn-plus Alinta
Energy, the group is also expected to be looking at Origin Energy’s Stockyard Hill wind farm project
when it comes up for sale. The sale has faced delays due to changes to a wind mill development up for
grabs. It consists of 157 approved wind turbines about 35km west of Ballarat.

CO
IN

RE
PUB
AN

queeic : Queensland Investment Corporation
i764 : Airports | iairtr : Air Transport | itsp : Transportation/Logistics | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial
Vehicles | ifinal : Financial Services | iinv : Investing/Securities
austr : Australia | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
The Main Report Limited
Document TMRTPL0020160804ec840000s

Page1of1©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.