HD
BY
WC
PD
ET
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Chinese investors set to buy one of Australia's largest grain farms

Justin White
403 words
21 January 2016
12:32
Xinhua News Agency
XNEWS
English
Copyright 2016. Xinhua News Agency. All rights reserved.

MELBOURNE, Jan. 21 (Xinhua) -- Chinese investors are on the verge of securing the purchase of one
of Australia's largest grain farming properties in the wheatbelt north of Perth in Western Australia (WA).
The deal between John Nicoletti, once regarded as WA's biggest grain grower, and Hong Kong-based
CK Life Sciences was reportedly finalized on Thursday pending approval from the Foreign Investment
Review Board.

CK Life Sciences is expected to pay close to 24 million U.S. dollars for Nicoletti's farms in the eastern
wheatbelt, near Mullewa in the mid-west region of WA. At 70,000 hectares, it is the biggest single
offering of freehold land in the state's history.

CK Life Sciences already holds large investments in Australian agriculture, being a majority shareholder
in the Challenger Wine Trust, which has interests in a string of vineyards, and the owner of Cheetham
Salt, Amgrow (farm products) and Accensi (crop protection).

Nicoletti told the Western Australia newspaper on Thursday that a string of poor harvesting seasons had
left him heavily in debt, but the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group (ANZ) had understood his
position and been very supportive through difficult times.

"If they had pulled the plug on me back in 2013, it would have been disastrous for agriculture out here. It
might have seen land values drop to 49 U.S.dollars a hectare. This deal sets the land value at that close
to 208 U.S. dollars/ha," he said.

Nicoletti produced about 1.2 tonnes of wheat per hectare in the harvesting season just completed, his
best result for several years from farms located in low rainfall areas.

"I have tremendous people around me and while they stay with me my job is easy," he said on
Thursday. "I get a lot of satisfaction from the fact we can go out and spray a paddock, put a crop in and
grow wheat to feed the world."
Nicoletti will continue farming under a 10-year sale and leaseback arrangement and use the proceeds
to pay off debt. The 61-year-old said he is looking forward to spending more time with his five
grandchildren once the sale lifts his debt burden.

CK Life Sciences has strong links to the family of Li Ka-shing, one of Asia's richest men.

Enditem

RF

03

Page1of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.CO

IN

RE

IPD
PUB
AN

beston : Challenger Wine Trust | ckh : CK Hutchison Holdings Limited | cklife : CK Life Sciences
International (Holdings) Inc
i0 : Agriculture | i01001 : Farming | i81502 : Trusts/Funds/Financial Vehicles | ifinal : Financial Services |
iinv : Investing/Securities
austr : Australia | china : China | melb : Melbourne | perth : Perth | waustr : Western Australia | apacz :
Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China |
devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | victor :
Victoria (Australia)
Australia
Xinhua News Agency
Document XNEWS00020160121ec1l000ul

Search Summary

Text

Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found
Timestamp

((chin* or hong kong)) and ( ( (residential or site or commercial) and (casino resort or
island or hotel or apartment or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or
company or board or entitys) and (transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) ) or
( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron or lead
or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or stake or
equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or firm or
company)) or ( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or
sale or equity or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or
group or firm or board) and (million* or billion* or B or M)) ) not (terrorism or war or
navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall Street or Forex or Stock
Exchange or rst=asxtex) and re=austr
15/01/2016 to 21/01/2016
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
217
18 September 2017 14:51

Page2of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.