HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Northern Minerals signs Rare Earths engineering contract with Chinese giant

Matt Birney
428 words
20 December 2016
Business News
WABN
English
© Copyright 2016 Business News Pty Ltd.

The proposition of Australia's first heavy rare earths mine is starting to look real after Northern
Minerals finalised an engineering, procurement and construction contract with Chinese engineering
giant Sinosteel MECC.

The two companies announced this week they had finalised their contract, less than a month after
agreeing a memorandum of understanding.

Under the contract, Sinosteel will construct the 60,000tpa pilot plant at the Browns Range heavy rare
earths project in W.A. The processing plant will be fully constructed in modules in China before being
transported and installed at Browns Range, about 160 km southeast of Halls Creek.

The innovative agreement defers payment of 20% of the contract value for a period of 2 years which
will potentially give Northern Minerals the option of paying around $12m of the $60m contract value
from cashflow produced from the project itself.

Alternatively Sinosteel MECC has the right to convert the deferred payment into Northern Minerals
shares.

Sinosteel MECC is the mining engineering flagship of the giant Sinosteel group. It has completed
more than 400 major metallurgical projects for the Chinese government and built many of the largest
international projects ever undertaken by China.

Browns Range now has few remaining hurdles before a final investment decision.

WA's Department of Mines and Petroleum has approved Northern Minerals' mining proposal, and a
large part of the funding for the project has been secured through a $30 million equity issue to China's
Huatai Mining.

Managing Director of Northern Minerals, George Bauk, said "The execution of the EPC contract is an
important step with regards to securing financing for the Browns Range pilot plant. We are committed
and focused towards the FID in mid-Q1 2017."

The proposed pilot plant would process ore at a rate of about 10% of the full-scale operation and is
scheduled to operate for three years allowing the company to make an informed investment decision
regarding the construction of a full-scale plant.

The key heavy rare earth to be produced from Browns Range is "Dysprosium", which is several times
more valuable than light rare earths. Dysprosium is an essential ingredient in permanent magnets
and in high demand from manufacturers of electric vehicles, wind turbines and a host of other large
industrial motor applications.

Page 1 of 2 © 2017 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

Managing Director of Northern Minerals, George Bauk, said "The execution of the EPC contract is an
important step with regards to securing financing for the Browns Range pilot plant. We are committed
and focused towards the FID in mid-Q1 2017."

iraremet : Rare Earth Metals | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying
cpartn : Partnerships/Collaborations | c333 : Non-governmental Contracts | c33 : Contracts/Orders |
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpin : C&E Industry
News Filter
china : China | austr : Australia | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz
: Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market
Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Business News Pty Ltd
Document WABN000020161219ecck001md

IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

Page 2 of 2 © 2017 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.

