News
SALE TO JOIN BRISBANE TO GOLD COAST

Kathleen Skene Chief reporter
632 words
1 September 2016
Gold Coast Bulletin
GCBULL
GoldCoast
4
English
© 2016 News Limited. All rights reserved.

the future?

the present the past

SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

A NEW coastal city, with scope for a Disney-sized theme park, education, housing, retail and
commercial space has been proposed between Brisbane and the Gold Coast under a historic deal
between the owners of 248 properties.

A parcel of sugarcane land more than 10 times the size of Surfers Paradise, bordered by the M1,
Moreton Bay and two rivers, is on the market with sellers hoping to set a sales record of more than $1
billion.

The site in the Norwell Valley would become Australia’s largest master-planned city, triple the land
size of Ipswich’s Greater Springfield which is projected to house 105,000 people by 2030.

The 40 landowners in the deal – many of them cane farmers – see the sale of the 6117ha as a
dignified end for the area’s industry which has been struggling to supply cane to the Rocky Point Mill.

Prospective buyers of the valley would become its master planners, co-ordinating government
approvals and engaging major residential and other developers to deliver the extensive infrastructure
required – with up to a third of the area proposed to be designated green space.

The deal between owners was struck by Global Enterprise Management Solutions, formed by architect
Rob Machon and stockbroker Wayne Cummins, who have moved to the Coast from Sydney.

In a statement, Canford Property, which is running the sales campaign, said agents had already
spoken to “some of China’s largest developers and theme park operators who want to unseat Disney
and develop one of world’s largest theme parks on the Gold Coast”.

One of China’s richest people, Wang Jianlin, has made no secret of his ambitions to take Disney’s
worldwide theme park crown through his Wanda Group.

Premier Annastacia Palaszczuk met with Mr Wang last year to talk about him investing in Queensland.

Wanda is building the Jewel development in southern Surfers Paradise and has other landholdings in
the city.

Page1of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Government approvals and zoning changes are likely to be among many potential hurdles for the
project which could take more than a decade to reach fruition.

Developers and planners have worked on Greater Springfield for 22 years and it required the State
Government to create specific legislation to go ahead.

The area is zoned rural under the Gold Coast City Plan, approved by the state last year. It specifically
aims to ensure land uses “do not interfere, encroach or impact on the city’s sugar cane growing,
particularly in the Woongoolba/Norwell areas and the Rocky Point Sugar Mill”.

The council is understood to be studying alternative uses for caneland under the City Plan 2015.

State Government representatives were briefed on the project on Monday. The proposal already has
the backing of Gold Coast Mayor Tom Tate, who said it had the potential to become an Orlando-style
tourist drawcard.

“We are talking about an expansion of the Yatala enterprise area, the southward expansion of the
aquaculture industry from the northeastern corner and primarily an expansion of the tourism,
recreation and entertainment offerings,” he said.

“The secondary opportunities of education sector expansion and Silicon Valley-type activity is
particularly exciting to me. Development can’t be piecemeal – that would never work given the flood
and drainage challenges.” Canford managing director Roland Evans said he had held talks with
Australian and foreign companies.

“What we’re looking for is someone who’s got the ability to do the master planning for this, because it’s
such a massive concept,” he said.

“Effectively, it closes the gap between the Gold Coast and Brisbane. “It will be a major grower of jobs,
homes and work – it’s a whole new town effectively.” Stapylton ormeauJacobs Well

IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

i5010031 : Leisure Facility Construction | i501 : Building Construction | iconst : Construction | icre :
Real Estate/Construction
gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | brisbn : Brisbane | queensl : Queensland | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz :
Australia/Oceania
News Ltd.
Document GCBULL0020160831ec910004s

Page2of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.