SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property
China's Fullshare uncorks Red Hill trophy vineyards

Larry Schlesinger
380 words
11 April 2016
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
32
English
Copyright 2016. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

China's Fullshare Group has demonstrated the appetite from Asian investors for premium Australian
vineyards after snapping up the trophy Red Hill Estate on the Mornington Peninsula for just over $5
million.
The picturesque 17.4-hectare property on Shoreham Road in Red Hill South, in the renowned cool
climate wine region, was established in 1989 by the late Australian businessman and philanthropist
Sir Peter Derham and Lady Derham. It produces highly regarded chardonnay, pinot noir, shiraz and
other varieties under the Red Hill Estate and The Bench labels.

Based in Nanjing, Fullshare is a top-500 Chinese company with real estate projects in Australia and
Canada. Its controlling shareholder and chairman is Hong Kong real estate billionaire Ji Changqun,
the 73rd richest man in China, according to Forbes.
Fullshare's Australian investments include the Sheraton Hotel in Port Douglas, the Whisper Bay units
and apartments at Airlie Beach - both rebranded under the Mirage brand - and the Laguna Quays
resort.

Sir Peter Derham died in 2008, but the Derham family remains shareholders in the investment
company, R H W Property, that owned the property. Other shareholders include Red Hill Estate
chairman Martin Brenton, Deloitte tax partner Dwayne Sleep, former Deloitte partner Tim Gullifer and
restaurateur Max Paganoni, owner of Max's Restaurant on the estate.
The estate has 9.7 hectares under vine planted to pinot noir and chardonnay varieties, a restaurant,
cellar door and a B&B. Leases over some of the estate bring in $350,000 per year.
Red Hill Estate sold with approvals in place for a redevelopment including doubling the size of the
restaurant and increasing the floor area of the buildings by more than 60 per cent.

The selling agents were Mark Wizel, Lewis Tong, James Beer and Duncan McCulloch of CBRE.
"Interest from Chinese buyers is continuing to diversify away from the pure development site space
in all capital cities in Australia," Mr Wizel said. "I expect this to continue with great force as the
understanding from Chinese buyers for different asset classes improves over time."
Last September the Sexton family acquired Mornington Peninsula's first vineyard, Main Ridge Estate
in Red Hill, with three hectares under vine for $3.25 million.

CO

delo : Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited

Page1of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.IN

NS
RE

PUB
AN

ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction | i836 : Accounting | iacc : Accounting/Consulting
| ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News
china : China | austr : Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric :
BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz :
Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020160410ec4b00021

Search Summary

Text

((chin* or hong kong)) and (

( (residential or site or commercial) and (casino resort or island or hotel or apartment
or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company or board or assets) and
(transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) )

or

( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron or lead
or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or stake or
equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or firm or
company))

or

( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or equity
or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group or firm or
board) and (million* or billion* or B or M))

)

not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall Street
or Forex or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex)

Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found
Timestamp

and re=austr
08/04/2016 to 14/04/2016
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
276
3 October 2017 12:12

Page2of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.