SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

Property - Briefs
Briefs

ROBERT HARLEY, MERCEDES RUEHL
257 words
14 April 2016
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
36
English
Copyright 2016. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.

Ryde to get 830 flats
Listed contractor, Watpac, has finalised a $264 million contract to build the Ryde Garden apartment
project in Sydney's north Ryde for Chinese developer Country Garden Australia. The project designed
by architects Bates Smart, will feature 830 residential apartments. ROBERT HARLEY

Greener pastures

Warringah Golf Club is selling its clubhouse in order to relocate closer to - or even onto - the golf
course. The clubhouse, at 397 Condamine Street sits on a large 4,071 square metre site in north Manly
and a buyer would be able to capitalise on its potential for residential development. CBRE's Aaron
Arias and Richard Gell are marketing the property. The raw site overlooks Warringah Golf Club is
expected to sell for about $5 million. Warringah Council supports the new clubhouse being built on the
golf course rather than on the site of the existing clubhouse. Mr Gell said it was a rare opportunity to
secure a sizeable footprint. "Parcels of this land size very rarely come to the market in north Manly and
as such, it offers an opportunity to provide a unique end product in a tightly held location," Mr Gell said.
MERCEDES RUEHL
Historic pub for sale
The remainder of the historic Evening Star Hotel in Sydney's Surry Hills, now leased to the Marvan
Hotel Group for seven years, is to be auctioned through Gunning Real Estate. Agent, Daniel Gunning,
said the location was rapidly becoming one of Sydney's residential and business hubs. ROBERT
HARLEY

CO
IN
NS

RE

PUB
AN

warghu : Warringah Council
ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction
nsum : News Digests | ncdig : Corporate Digests | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce :
C&E Exclusion Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New
South Wales
Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited
Document AFNR000020160413ec4e0000s

Page1of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Search Summary

Text

((chin* or hong kong)) and (

( (residential or site or commercial) and (casino resort or island or hotel or apartment
or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company or board or assets) and
(transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) )

or

( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron or lead
or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or stake or
equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or firm or
company))

or

( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or equity
or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group or firm or
board) and (million* or billion* or B or M))

)

not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall Street
or Forex or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex)

Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found
Timestamp

and re=austr
08/04/2016 to 14/04/2016
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
276
3 October 2017 1:11

Page2of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.