SE
HD
WC
PD
SN
SC
LA
CY
LP

TD

Business
Southbank site in play for $65m

473 words
4 February 2016
The Australian - Online
AUSTOL
English
© 2016 News Limited. All rights reserved.

A Chinese development syndicate is set to storm into the Melbourne development market, with the
group eyeing the purchase of a Southbank site that could sustain a $500 million-plus apartment
and hotel project.
Southbank site in play for $65m

The Australian understands Singaporean business heavyweight Michael Kum has agreed to sell the
site to a Chinese group for nearly $65m.
Mr Kum, who owns hotel investment company M&L Hospitality Group, bought the site in 2013 for
just $30m. The 4000sq m parcel, at 38 Freshwater Place, has approval for the construction of a 73
level, 280m-high tower.
The Victorian government has approved plans to build 496 apartments and a 390 hotel rooms. The
planned project, called Ultimus Tower, is close to Crown Resorts and the site that Crown and
Schiavello Group hope to construct a 90-stroey apartment and hotel tower worth about $1.5 billion.

The building will be among a host of other tall towers slated for Southbank, which is Australia’s
highest density suburb.
A six-level office building next to the Freshwater Place site is set to be converted into a 66-level
apartment tower, while on the other side of the site is the recently built 72-level Prima Pearl
apartment tower.
Mr Kum’s site would have attracted premium offers given that a project of this scale would struggle
to gain the approval of planners due to the year-long interim controls that will be in place in
Melbourne until August.

After August, State planning minister Richard Wynne will announce a long-term policy for
plot-rations in the city. There is no certainty a project of this scale would be allowed in the future.

The deal was brokered by agency CBRE, which declined to comment.
But the Melbourne site sale could be overshadowed by M&L Hospitality’s efforts to offload its
$1.5bn-plus Australian and New Zealand hotels arm.

The Kum family placed a string of landmark hotels, including Sydney’s Sheraton Four Points and
Melbourne’s Hilton DoubleTree, on the market in early December.
It is the largest hotel portfolio sale process in more than a decade and is being handled by
Rothschild and UBS. They are marketing the six hotel assets in one line with bidding extended to
close later this month.

Page1of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.At least five global institutions are chasing the portfolio, which includes Melbourne’s Travelodge
Docklands, the Hilton Auckland, Christchurch’s Chateau on the Park and Sydney’s Swissotel.
M&L last year confirmed it was running the hotel process, but maintained it was not set on a sale. It
also remains an active developer in Sydney, buying a hotel project in Sussex Street near
Barangaroo, and undertaking the One Wharf Lane tower adjoining the Sheraton Four Points.

IN

RE

IPD
PUB
AN

i5010022 : Residential Building Construction | i501 : Building Construction | iconst : Construction |
icre : Real Estate/Construction
austr : Australia | melb : Melbourne | nswals : New South Wales | nz : New Zealand | sydney :
Sydney | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania
hotel project
News Ltd.
Document AUSTOL0020160204ec240015d

Search Summary

Text

Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found
Timestamp

((chin* or hong kong)) and (
( (residential or site or commercial) and (casino resort or island or hotel or apartment
or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company or board or entitys) and
(transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) )
or
( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron or lead
or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or stake or
equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or firm or
company))
or
( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or equity
or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group or firm or
board) and (million* or billion* or B or M))
)
not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall Street
or Forex or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex)
and re=austr
29/01/2016 to 04/02/2016
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
199
21 September 2017 13:53

Page2of2©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.