10/7/2017

Factiva

Home

Search

Alerts

Newsletters

News Pages

Companies/Markets

Display Options

+ Related Dow Jones Intelligent Indexing™

Listen to Article

 | 

Share

SE  Property
HD  Beulah joins tussle for Telstra prize

AU  Nick Lenaghan, Larry Schlesinger
BY  Nick Lenaghan and Larry Schlesinger
WC  403 words
PD  19 April 2016
SN  The Australian Financial Review
SC  AFNR
ED  First
PG  38
LA  English
CY  Copyright 2016. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.
LP  Ambitious Melbourne developer Beulah International, backed by a powerful Hong Kong player, has joined heavyweight local and offshore bidders in the tussle

for a prize Melbourne development site, controlled by Telstra.

The race for the $100 million Telstra site, a prime residential prospect overlooking the leafy Carlton Gardens, is shaping as a key test for the Melbourne city
market.

TD  Adding to the drama, the Reserve Bank of Australia has joined a number of recent commentators concerned about the potential for over supply in inner-city

markets, including Melbourne's.

Notwithstanding, a shortlist of seven contenders is now competing for the 4000-square-metre Telstra prize on Exhibition Street, in a process managed by
CBRE.

Among them are Malaysia's largest listed developer, SP Setia, Chinese giant Greenland, along with another China powerhouse Poly Group. Local private
developer Salta Properties is also in the mix.

And joining them in the race now is Beulah, a company backed by West Australian-based private investors with ties to Singapore and run by Jiaheng Chan and
his partner, Adelene Teh.

Ms Teh is the daughter of Dato Teh, chief executive of listed Malaysian conglomerate IJM Corporation, whose activities include property development and
construction.

They now have support from a Forbes rich lister, who controls a Hong Kong-listed company with global operations, sources said.

With a series of suburban residential developments under its belt, Beulah is no stranger to major CBD plays.

It was previously part of a syndicate that developed the Nonda Katsalidis-designed Australia 108 tower project at Melbourne's Southbank, that was
subsequently sold on to Singapore's Aspial.

The 101-storey skyscraper in Melbourne's Southbank is set to become the tallest residential tower in the southern hemisphere..

"Our strategy is to develop a few boutique high-end developments and a longer-term mega project such as the Telstra site," Jiaheng Chan told The Australian
Financial Review.

Beulah also recently purchased a boutique residential development site in Ivanhoe for $5.7 million.

The site comes with approval for 43 apartments, but Beulah is reworking these plans to create larger apartments.

"Residents of Ivanhoe have generally lived in the suburb for most of their life and we want to provide them with the option to downsize to a lower maintenance
and more convenient lifestyle, without compromising luxury and liveability," Mr Chan said.

CO  tcoma : Telstra Corporation Ltd

IN  ireest : Real Estate | icre : Real Estate/Construction | i7902 : Telecommunication Services

NS  ccat : Corporate/Industrial News

RE  austr : Australia | hkong : Hong Kong | melb : Melbourne | victor : Victoria (Australia) | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries |

china : China | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

PUB  Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited

AN  Document AFNR000020160418ec4j0001g

UI Ver:99.1.0 Mod:22:40 ID:FWEB7

© 2017 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.  Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Policy

 

https://global-factiva-com.virtual.anu.edu.au/ga/default.aspx

1/1

