9/20/2017

Factiva

Home

Search

Alerts

Newsletters

News Pages

Companies/Markets

LIVE HELP

Display Options

+ Related Dow Jones Intelligent Indexing™

Listen to Article

 | 

Translate Article | 

Share

SE  Exclusive
HD  Barrick receives A$1.3B offer for Australian gold mine stake

AU  Sarah Mughal
BY  Sarah Mughal
WC  1855 words
PD  20 November 2016
SN  SNL Financial Extra
SC  SNLFE
LA  English
CY  Copyright 2016. SNL Financial LC
LP  TOP NEWS

Barrick Gold receives A$1.3B offer for Australian gold mine stake

TD  Minjar Gold, a subsidiary of Shanghai-listed property group Shandong Tyan Home, has made a A$1.3 billion bid to buy Barrick Gold Corp.'s 50% stake in the

Kalgoorlie gold project in Western Australia, The Australian reported.

Anglo American restarts work at Los Bronces copper mine

Anglo American Plc resumed normal operations at its Los Bronces copper mine in Chile after security conditions improved at the site. The company suspended
all operations at Los Bronces earlier during the week after protesters seized the company offices, fuel trucks and installations.

Former Guinean minister claims Rio Tinto official offered bribes for Simandou control

Guinea's former mining minister Mahmoud Thiam claimed that Steven Din, the head of Rio Tinto's Guinea operation, offered him a bribe in early 2010 to gain
control of the other half of the Simandou iron ore property from billionaire investor Beny Steinmetz's BSG Resources Ltd., Bloomberg News reported.

DIVERSIFIED

* S&P Global Ratings upgraded Teck Resources Ltd.'s long-term corporate rating to BB from B+ with a stable outlook on the expectation that sharply higher
metallurgical coal prices will lead to improved cash flow, core credit measures and stronger liquidity over the next 12 months.

* Australia's EMR Capital's new fund is still a while away from making its first investment even though it raised US$860 million this week, more than the
US$750 million it expected for its second fund. Managing Director and CEO Jason Chang told S&P Global Market Intelligence: "The next deal is still some time
away, but we are looking at some things very closely."

BASE METALS

* The government of the Democratic Republic of Congo secured an additional 15% interest in the Kamoa-Kakula copper project, increasing its share to 20%.
Joint venture partners at the project, Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. and Zijin Mining Group Co. Ltd., signed the agreement Nov. 11, cutting their indirect interest in the
project to 39.6% each.

* China Polymetallic Mining Ltd. said that after almost one year of developing the Aung Jiujia lead-zinc mine in Myanmar, the company put the processing plant
of the first phase into production and operation in mid-November.

* Moody's said a deal struck by Lundin Mining Corp. to offload its 30% indirect interest in TF Holdings Ltd. for US$1.14 billion in cash and contingent
consideration of up to US$51.4 million to an affiliate of Chinese private equity firm BHR Partners is credit positive for Lundin. The credit rating agency said the
deal will significantly improve Lundin's cash position, allowing for possible investment in new developments or assets while maintaining low leverage.

* Codelco said none of its operations were affected by a magnitude 6.4 quake that hit near the Argentina-Chile border, Reuters reported. The state-owned
miner's Andina and El Teniente copper mines are located in central Chile, not far from the quake's epicenter.

* Rescue teams have recovered bodies of five miners from a copper mine operated by a private company in the southeastern town of Sirvan in Turkey, which
collapsed following a massive landslide Nov. 17, Hurriyet Daily news reported. Rescue operations are underway to recover another 11 miners said to be
trapped at the site.

* Latitude Consolidated Ltd. agreed to sell its noncore Lyndon Station base metals project in the Carnarvon-Gascoyne region of Western Australia to focus on
the highly prospective Mount Ida gold belt.

PRECIOUS METALS

* Gold Fields Ltd. and Silver Standard Resources Inc. withdrew their joint C$1.44 billion takeover offer for Kirkland Lake Gold Inc. Gold Fields, however, said it
remained interested in pursuing negotiations over a board-supported transaction with Kirkland Lake, should the latter's shareholders reject the merger with
Newmarket Gold Inc.

* Canadian miner Goldcorp Inc. partnered with Sandvik Mining and MacLean Engineering in a bid to turn the company's Borden Lake mine in Ontario into an
all-electric site, Mining.com reported. The mine will use an electricity and battery-powered underground fleet, which is expected to eliminate all greenhouse
gases associated with the movement of ore and waste rock, equal to roughly 50% of the total GHGs on site, or 5,000 tonnes of CO2 per annum.

* Eldorado Gold Corp. secured approval for an amended plan to build an enrichment plant on its Skouries gold-copper property in Greece, Reuters reported,
citing an unnamed senior Greek energy ministry source.

https://global.factiva.com/ga/default.aspx

1/3

9/20/2017

Factiva

* Atlatsa Resources Corp. said that Bokoni Platinum Mines (Pty.) Ltd. struck a two-year wage deal with three unions — the National Union of Mineworkers,
Togetherness Amalgamated Workers Union of South Africa and the United Association of South Africa — at its majority-owned Bokoni platinum operation in
South Africa's Limpopo province. The deal is effective retrospectively from July 1.

* Great Western Exploration Ltd. is acquiring an 80% interest in the Harris Find project in Western Australia. The property is prospective for gold, lithium and
base metals.

* Randgold Resources Ltd. and Newcrest Mining Ltd. signed a heads of agreement to establish a joint venture to explore, develop and mine mineral resources
in the southeast of Ivory Coast.

BULK COMMODITIES

* Brazilian Federal Judge Jacques de Queiroz Ferreira agreed to hear a criminal case against 22 employees of Samarco Mineração SA and its co-owners Vale
SA and BHP Billiton Group, who were last month accused by prosecutors of homicide for their roles in the Samarco iron ore mine spill in November 2015,
Reuters reported. According to court documents, defendants have 30 days to present their defense.

* Moroccan phosphate exporter Office Chérifien des Phosphates struck a deal with Ethiopian state-run company Chemical Industries Corp. to build a US$3.7
billion plant in Ethiopia to produce fertilizers, Reuters reported.

* ArcelorMittal South Africa Ltd. shareholders voted in favor of a 2.2-billion-rand deal pursuant to which the company will give a 17% stake to its partner
Likamva Resources Pty. Ltd., a specially formed, black-owned company, Mining Weekly reported.

* Cliffs Natural Resources Inc. CEO Lourenco Goncalves blamed global mining giants Rio Tinto, Vale and BHP for iron ore price fluctuations in the market over
the past year, MiningNews.net wrote, referring to a statement he made at the Goldman Sachs Global Metals & Mining Conference. The price of iron ore
touched US$80 per tonne this week, compared to a low of US$30 per tonne in 2015.

* The sacked London-based CEO of Rio Tinto's energy and minerals unit, Alan Davies, is seeking advice regarding taking legal action against the company
over his dismissal in wake of the Simandou iron ore corruption scandal in Guinea, The Australian reported. The former executive claims the company made
"no effort to abide by due process" when it terminated his employment.

* Meanwhile, The Australian Financial Review wrote that Guinean Minister of Mines and Geology Abdoulaye Magassoub has demanded answers from the
mining heavyweight over its decision to sack two executives, urging it to clarify any wrongdoing.

* TerraCom Resources Ltd. restarted mining operations at its Baruun Noyon Uul coal mine in the South Gobi in Mongolia after securing a 5.5-year off-take deal
for hard coking coal.

* From January to October, China Shenhua Energy Co. Ltd.'s coal sales volume increased 6.1% year over year to 323.8 million tonnes, which it attributed to a
substantial increase in sales volume of coal purchased from third parties as a result of the utilization of the company's own transportation capacity and
favorable market opportunity with intensified efforts in coal source organization and coal sales.

* Flinders Mines Ltd. was granted environmental approval for the development of an expanded operation at its Pilbara iron ore project in Western Australia,
which allows the company to increase annual production of iron ore from 15 million tonnes to 25 million tonnes.

* The head of commodities trading group Liberty House, Sanjeev Gupta, is visiting Arrium Ltd.'s Whyalla steelworks in South Australia, as well as other assets
for which it is bidding, as administrators KordaMentha enter the final stage of the sale of Arrium's remaining assets, The Australian Financial Review reported.

* Separately, The Australian Financial Review wrote that Sanjeev Gupta's Liberty House will jointly bid with his father's SIMEC shipping, mining and energy
empire for Arrium's assets.

* Brazilian steelmaker Gerdau SA could increase export volumes of semi-finished steel products as the company has decided to reduce the extent of a planned
temporary stoppage at its long steel unit in Divinópolis, Metal Bulletin reported, citing market sources.

* Glencore Plc is looking to raise US$550 million from investors through a debt issue guaranteed by oil from Iraqi Kurdistan as the company seeks a much
bigger role in the region, Reuters reported.

* Black Mountain Resources Ltd. produced its maiden salable vermiculite product at the Namakera project in Uganda.

* For the nine months to September, Ukraine's state-owned United Mining and Chemical Co. posted net profit of 665.9 million hryvnias, about 2.8x higher than
a year earlier, delo.ua reported.

* Coal extraction in Poland totaled 73 million tonnes in 2015, down from 84 million tonnes in 2008, Puls Biznesu reported, citing the Central Statistical Office.

SPECIALTY

* Millennial Lithium Corp.'s Argentine subsidiary, Proyecto Pastos Grandes SA, executed a formal option agreement with Southern Lithium Corp., granting the
latter an option to acquire up to an 80% interest in the company's Cruz lithium property in Argentina.

* Viking Mines Ltd. agreed to acquire Argo Metals Group Ltd., which holds a 75% interest in the Reung Kiet lithium project in southern Thailand.

INDUSTRY NEWS

* The Western Australia government passed legislation allowing the sale of the Utah Point Bulk Handling Facility as part of its asset sales program, under
which sales totaling A$2.2 billion have been completed to date. The facility is currently owned by the Pilbara Ports Authority and has a ship loader with a peak
load rate of 7,500 tonnes per hour.

* The Crown Prosecution Service said a former accountant at the London Metal Exchange, AnnMarie Norris, was charged with two counts of fraud worth £1
million by abuse of position between December 2012 and December 2015, Reuters reported.

* Police arrested 22 people in the Eastern region of Ghana following clashes that left at least two people dead with 10 others wounded, Daily Guide reported.
The clashes occurred as some illegal miners reportedly attacked police who were leading an operation to stop illegal mining activities in the Birim River.

* Chinese authorities in the Dechen County of Dechen Tibet Autonomous Prefecture in Yunnan arrested 20 Tibetans involved in the protests against mining in
the Yangdro village, RFA radio services reported.

S&P Global Ratings and S&P Global Market Intelligence are owned by S&P Global Inc.

The Daily Dose is updated as of 7 a.m. Hong Kong time, and scans news sources published in Chinese, English, Indonesian, Malay, Portuguese, Russian,
Spanish, Thai and Ukrainian. Some external links may require a subscription.

https://global.factiva.com/ga/default.aspx

2/3

9/20/2017

Factiva

CO  aamcr : Anglo American PLC | bari : Barrick Gold Corp

IN  i211 : Metal Ore Mining | igoldm : Gold Ore Mining | ibasicm : Basic Materials/Resources | imet : Mining/Quarrying

NS  gearth : Earthquakes/Volcanic Activity/Landslides | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | gdis : Disasters/Accidents | gntdis : Natural

Disasters/Catastrophes | grisk : Risk News

RE  austr : Australia | china : China | waustr : Western Australia | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China |

devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia

IPD  Industry News

PUB  SNL Financial LC

AN  Document SNLFE00020161122ecbk0002t

UI Ver:98.6.0 Mod:13:30 ID:FWEB2

© 2017 Factiva, Inc. All rights reserved.  Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Policy

 

https://global.factiva.com/ga/default.aspx

3/3

