SE
HD
BY
WC
PD
SN
SC
ED
PG
LA
CY
LP

TD

RealEstate
Classic federation-style charms are irresistible to buyers

Susan Liu
720 words
1 April 2016
North Shore Times
NORSHO
NorthShore310
42
English
© 2016 News Limited. All rights reserved.

Strong results recorded despite quiet Easter weekend, reports Susan Liu

A GRAND Federation home in Lindfield was snapped up for more than $4 million before the Easter
long weekend.

The five-bedroom property at 19 Waimea Rd sold after an Expressions of Interest campaign through
Martin Ross of Ken Jacobs, Christie’s International Real Estate.

It was listed with a price guide of $3.9 million to $4.3 million. About 30 groups inspected the 1195sq m
property, with interest coming from a mix of local and international buyers, Mr Ross said.
“The buyer is a Chinese buyer who is a permanent resident. They never thought about buying in
Lindfield but liked the layout of the garden, the large block of land and the Federation style,” he said.

The owners are moving closer to Sydney CBD.

“There is a lack of quality stock currently available,” Mr Ross said. “Buyers are more astute and they’re
aware that the market is changing, but they’re still willing to pay a premium for quality properties.”
A STROKE OF GOOD LUCK An UNRENOVATED three-bedroom house in Wollstonecraft sold for
$1.85 million at auction – $150,000 above the reserve.
The freestanding brick home at 8 Christie St attracted significant interest particularly from Chinese
buyers thanks to the lucky number 8, Ray White Lower North Shore listing agent Sean St Clair said.

Three of the 10 registered bidders participated on the day, offering two quick $100,000 bids after an
opening offer of $1.5 million.

The buyers then battled it out offering a tense succession of bids until the home was secured by a
Chinese buyer for $1.85 million.

Throughout the campaign, 130 groups came through inspections and 20 contracts were handed out.
OFF MARKET SALE A KILLARA estate spanning more than 2300sq m has sold for $9.75 million in
an off market sale negotiated by Phil Orr from Sydney Sotheby’s International Realty Upper North
Shore.
The property at 9 Lorne Ave was bought by a local developer and is likely to be amalgamated into a
new residential development of about 55 apartments.

Page1of3©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The property is positioned just metres from Killara station, parks shops and schools.
PRIZED EAST SIDE POSITION A WAHROONGA property in a coveted east side position has sold
for $2.3 million. The auction of the five-bedroom home at 7a Wahroonga Ave was held on the front
terrace in front of a big crowd.
A total of 19 bids were made and the underbidder missed out by $25,000. It sold with LJ Hooker St
Ives agents Peter Ramsay and Matthew Johnson.

The house, on a 911sq m block, offered scope to renovate. It included a covered rear entertaining area
and a fenced saltwater pool.

THE MILLER ON THE RISE The stage one release of North Sydney’s newest development,The Miller,
has sold out on its opening weekend.
All four of the top-floor penthouses exchanged hands during the sale weekend, with prices starting at
$3 million. They were all secured by local buyers.
The strong buyer response to the first round of sales has prompted developer Yuhu Group to consider
an early release of second stage sales.
Located at 221 Miller St, The Miller is the first Australian residential offering from the Chinese-based
group, which reportedly paid about $56 million for the site in September, which was formerly an office
tower.
The developer is investing more than $200 million into the 21-storey residential tower that will
comprise 183 apartments, being sold through Ray White Projects, and 100 serviced apartments.

“Although there is a lot of speculation that the market is slowing, the quick sell-out of our first release
shows that there is still significant strength in the Sydney market, and high demand for quality
apartments within the city,” Ray White Projects Director Eddie Mansour said.

“With a unique standard of living, The Miller has been designed to accommodate residents seeking a
lifestyle of convenience and leisure with a unique Manhattan style living experience in North Sydney.
The specialised concierge service, which includes on-site gym, restaurant, laundry and room service –
has been a key feature for our buyers.”Find us on Facebook at NorthShoreTimes or on Twitter
@NorthShoreTimes

NS
RE

PUB
AN

greest : Real Estate/Property | gcat : Political/General News
austr : Australia | sydney : Sydney | apacz : Asia Pacific | ausnz : Australia/Oceania | nswals : New
South Wales
News Ltd.
Document NORSHO0020160331ec410000f

Search Summary

Text

((chin* or hong kong)) and (

( (residential or site or commercial) and (casino resort or island or hotel or apartment
or park or estate or property) and (group or firm or company or board or assets) and
(transaction* or purchase* or sale or sold or buy) )

or

( (uranium or wind or gold or solar or ore or copper or energy or alumina or iron or lead
or coal or oil) and (bonds or acquisition or merge or purchase or sale or stake or
equity) and (million* or billion* or B or M) and (operations or mining or firm or
company))

or

( (dairy or cheese or butter or milk or bread or wine) and (sold or buy or sale or equity
or stake or merge or acquire) and (brand or company or business or group or firm or
board) and (million* or billion* or B or M))

Page2of3©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.)

not (terrorism or war or navy or stock market or share market or Wall St or Wall Street
or Forex or Stock Exchange or rst=asxtex)

Date
Source
Author
Company
Subject
Industry
Region
Language
Results Found
Timestamp

and re=austr
01/04/2016 to 07/04/2016
All Sources
All Authors
All Companies
All Subjects
All Industries
All Regions
English
217
3 October 2017 0:04

Page3of3©2017Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.